{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Source Notes
\fs26 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Sebastian Coleman on Data and Architecture\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs26 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2 	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	\'93In architectural drawings, the house will be depicted in a set of views showing the size, shape, and details of its structure. The purpose of an architectural drawing is to enable people to see what the house would look like and to make decisions about how it will be built. The accompanying floor plan, another model of the house, contributes to the process of understanding the size and shape of the house and is also necessary input to building the house. It contains details such as room size, the number of windows and doors, and the like that will influence the construction of the house. None of these models is the house itself, but all of them depict the house. Each represents a subset of characteristics important to the purpose of the representation. The same idea applies to data models.\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}\'93When working with data models, it is important to recognize that there is not one-and-only-one way to model any given dataset. Put this way, models present a kind of chicken-and-egg problem: Do data define models, or do models define data? The answer is both. To be understandable at all, 
\f1\b data require context and structure
\f2\b0 . Data models provide a means of understanding this context. In doing so, they also create context. If data stakeholders find that models are understandable representations of data, then they can become a primary means of defining data.\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}\'93For most databases, especially data warehouses, models are critical to data management. The conceptual and logical models allow data managers to know what data resides in the data asset. The physical model has a direct bearing on how data is moved within the database, as well as how it is accessed.\'94\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}from just before \'93Physical Characteristics of Data\'94
\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::2>}