{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red251\green0\blue23;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgray\c57042;\csgenericrgb\c98600\c0\c9100;
}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Introduction \'96 Emily Dickinson Publication History\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 	Over the course of Emily Dickinson\'92s lifetime around a dozen of her poems were published, and never under her name. Those published were altered without her consent to conform to nineteenth century editorial demands of grammar, punctuation, titling, capitalization. Whole stanzas were sometimes erased or replaced for the sake of popular, poetic aesthetics. To consider the fraught and complicated publication history of her works following her death and why she chose not to publish the thousands of pieces she had authored is to understand how careful Dickinson was when she wrote and her insistence on leading a mostly private life. For instance, one very slight alteration of her \'93A narrow Fellow in the Grass\'94 in Samuel Bowles\'92 \'93Springfield Republican\'94 in February 1866 elicited her complaint: It changed the meaning (McNeil 33-34). The editorial crime? The \'93Republican\'94 added a comma and replaced a dash with a full stop. It\'92s not a wonder that one of her poems begins, \'93Publication is the auction / Of the mind of man, Poverty be justifying / For so foul a thing\'94 (
\f1\i Further Poems
\f0\i0 , Bianchi/Hampson, 4) \cf0 More than a century after her death, poet Ted Hughes described the predicament of a poet\'92s emergence as a public persona as \'93limiting\'94 and even \'93crippling\'94, and not just because of a lack of privacy. \'93It\'92s like being in a close-knit family. The moment you do anything new, the whole family jumps on it, comments, teases, advises against, does everything to make you self-conscious. There\'92s a unanimous reaction to keep you as you were.\'94 (Heinz and Hughes, \'93Paris Review\'94, Spring 1995). \cf2 As Dickinsonian lore has it, the bulk of her thousands of manuscript pages were discovered in her bedroom bureau. What began as a slow-moving publishing project by sister-in-law and close friend, Susan, transformed into an effort by one of Dickinson\'92s poetic correspondents and her brother\'92s mistress, and then not long after into a feud between said mistress and Dickinson\'92s remaining family. The feud which stretched generations involved property, manuscripts rights, and even the depiction of her persona. \cf0 Hughes\'92 metaphor of a henpecking family interested in affixing an identity upon their author-relative appears strangely appropriate in Dickinson\'92s case, particularly if one imagines what would have happened had she published under her name while alive. That\'92s not to say that Dickinson\'92s family and friends did not have the best of intentions in preserving and publicizing her writing, but visiting the complicated publishing history that followed her death at times depicts more about the people involved in it than the poet herself. And the editorial changes to the poems, particularly in their nascent forms in print, make the replacement of merely one of her famous dashes in the \'93Republican\'94 look quaint.\
	This kind of information, the detailed and rich provenance depicting a publication history is not always available for a literary scholar attempting to make sense of the various forms of a writer\'92s works in print. And even when that information is available, disentangling the thorniness of that history can prove difficult. One of the advertised promises of computational analysis of literature is to uncover latent information that can aid in difficult research questions, to help detect patterns, trends, and influences especially when there are gaps in the historical record. The production of mathematical models of literature \'96 that is quantified representations of the pieces of language in sequence that compose literary works \'96 are made to pull off a paradoxical magic trick: to reduce our knowledge temporarily in an effort to expand it. Polly Longsworth, writing on attempts by Dickinson\'92s publishers and subsequent biographers to reverse engineer a persona of the poet through her image and the traces of her life \'96 letters, notes, furnishings, etc. \'96 imparts a telling if disturbing description of the nature of that task and Dickinson\'92s own part in making it a difficult one. \'93By straining to keep all traces of what she called "personality'" out of her poems and letters, she made herself vulnerable to the\
imposition of multiple personalities\'94 (Longsworth 39). The multiple roles that Dickinson has taken on post-mortem reflects that computational magic trick. For the notion of a model of Dickinson\'92s poetry contains the idea that we are reassembling an Emily Dickinson and her ouevre by considering the multiple versions of her poems put to print, altered by her editors and publishers. We are reconstructing a Dickinson that is based on quantifiable evidence, but also, of course, the perspective of the modeler themselves. This is a feature for literary scholarship and not a bug: to produce a fact-based and experientially-inflected interpretation of reality. Moretti\'92s \'93elaboration\'94 is not so new after all, merely an enhanced component of a fact-finding toolkit that extends our ability to gain new perspectives into a partially more objective realm.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 \
\
\'93It\'92s certainly limiting to confine your writing to one public persona, because the moment you publish your own name you lose freedom. It\'92s like being in a close-knit family. The moment you do anything new, the whole family jumps on it, comments, teases, advises against, does everything to make you self-conscious. There\'92s a unanimous reaction to keep you as you were.\
\
\'93In poetry, living as a public persona in your writing is \'85 crippling.\'94\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 \
\cf3 In fact, there seems to be only one case where she willingly changed, and that was at the behest of her close friend and sister-in-law, Susan.\cf2  \
\
After her death, a feud over the publication of her manuscripts arose between the families of her brother Austin\'92s wife, Susan, and his mistress Mabel Loomis Todd. The rights to the manuscripts were divided. \
\
They were subsequently published in varying collections, at times edited in similar ways that would have likely evoked Dickinson\'92s reprobation, notably the initial three volume Poems series, 1891-96. \
\
Susan\'92s collection of Emily\'92s manuscripts was given to Harvard University in 1950, and those works to which the Todds claimed ownership to Amherst College. \
\
It would not be until 1955 when scholar Thomas Johnson released his Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson that much of the completed poems would all be published together. \
\
Johnson\'92s edition arranged the poems by approximate date of writing and kept Dickinson\'92s original punctuation, capitalization, and phrasing. \
\
This was followed by the 1958 publication of Dickinson\'92s letters, themselves containing poems that were written to friends and family. \
\
The majority of works existed in Susan\'92s collection: over 1,000 poems, 300 letters, Emily\'92s herbarium, and personal effects like her bible and other books from her library. \
\
Thus Harvard\'92s Houghton Library and University Press have been responsible for publishing most of the standard Dickinson collections. \
\
However, Amherst College maintains over 850 pieces of Dickinson\'92s writing including several fascicles as well as many rough drafts and fragments of paper on which Dickinson would often scribble poetic lines or ideas.\
\
	When R.W. Franklin put out the two-volume compendium, The Manuscript Books of Emily Dickinson in 1981, it was clear that there was more to Dickinson\'92s original manuscripts than even Johnson\'92s edition had attempted to restore via his addition of a chronology for them. \
\
That many of her poems were found in a little, \cf4 wooden box (or chest)\cf2  in the form of little booklets, or fascicules as Mabel Loomis Todd first named them, was the stuff of both popular and academic Dickinson lore: separate sheets folded (not nested), stacked, and hand sewn together. \
\
Franklin went to the painstaking trouble of re-assembling the original manuscript ordering of the poems by examining the alignments of smudges and needle holes on the page. Franklin\'92s volumes included 1,148 loose manuscript and fascicle poems. \
\
This work has continued, the latest of which is Franklin\'92s 1998 The Poems of Emily Dickinson: Variorum Edition which expands beyond the poems of The Manuscript Books to include the full 1,789 known, complete Dickinson poems. \
\
Just as many modern collections have done, Dickinson\'92s editors had been arranging her poems by their apparent thematics: death, flowers, God, etc. But with the ability to assess the fascicle poems in their original order, more scholars began to question the insight that had been offered when looking to singular poems and comparing them against other, thematically-close if not chronologically-close, Dickinson poems.\
\
	Ruth Miller\'92s 1968 The Poems of Emily Dickinson, was the first major work to treat the fascicles seriously as a potential structuring element for Dickinson\'92s poetry. Though she did not have the precise fascicle ordering, she argued that each book was arranged as a quest narrative. This was followed by Martha O\'92Keefe\'92s brief article \'93Primal Thought\'94 in 1979, where she shows how Dickinson placed opposing \'93primal\'94 words on opposite fascicle pages. William Shurr\'92s 1983 The Marriage of Emily Dickinson: A Study of the Fascicles was the next attempt to take a comprehensive, look at fascicle ordering, arguing that, when considered in fascicle order, the poems appear to address the phases of a \'93marriage.\'94 Shurr\'92s work is the first, comprehensive post-Franklin accounting of the poems that considers Johnson\'92s chronology and Franklin\'92s fascicle ordering. In addition to the biographically based, critical narrative of Shurr\'92s monograph, its indices and appendices offer a concise summary of Dickinson\'92s project.\
\
	The critical work that Franklin enabled can be divided between those that have attempted to treat the entirety of the fascicles or singular ones. The inherent structuralism in this criticism is woven together by evidence biographical, psychological, sociological, and by the way the fascicles themselves are examined and compared. Without going into too much detail here, I will offer a listing of both types of critical works as examples of past approaches to the fascicles in order to situate my examination of them. I will be addressing some of these in greater detail in my own fascicle analysis to follow. Those who, in varying ways, have addressed the entirety of the fascicles (in chronological order) include M.L Rosenthal and Sally Gall\'92s The Modern Poetic Sequence (1983), Paul Gallipeo\'92s The Amherst Fascicles of Emily Dickinson (1984), Martha O\'92Keefe\'92s This Edifice (1986), Robyn Bell\'92s Emily Dickinson\'92s Bookmaking (1988), Sharon Cameron\'92s Choosing Not Choosing (1992), Dorothy Oberhaus\'92 Emily Dickinson\'92s Fascicles: Method and Meaning (1995), and finally Eleanor Heginbotham\'92s Dwelling in Possibilities (2003), a monograph to which my work owes much credit. \
\
	Those works listed above that have attempted to examine the entire collection often relent to addressing just a few of the fascicles. Even if the fascicles did not contain some 800 poems with which to compare, the difficulty of Dickinson\'92s poems are already a high enough barrier. For instance, Heginbotham begins her own observations of paired poems by focusing on fascicles 8 and 21. Much like the other oeuvre-wide Dickinson criticism, Dwelling in Possibilities explicitly hopes to act as a sort of primer or guide for looking at the fascicles further. This synecdochic hope can be seen in the works that address single fascicles. Without being exhaustive, William Doreski writes on fascicle 27 in his \'93Exchange of Territory\'94 (1986), John Gerlach on fascicle 39 in his \'93Bolts, Hounds, the Variorum\'94(1994), Daneen Wardrop on fascicle 16 in her \'93Emily Dickinson and the Gothic in Fascicle 16\'94 (2002), and so forth. Though I will not list the contents here, the recent Dickinson\'92s Fascicles: A Spectrum of Possibilities (2014), edited by Heginbotham and Paul Crumbly, also features a collection of essays of both types of criticism. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 	After more than two years of work between institutions, the \'93Emily Dickinson Archive\'94 at edickinsonarchive.org was launched in the fall of 2013. It contains a fully indexed and searchable database of Emily Dickinson\'92s poem manuscripts, the majority of which are from Harvard University\'92s Houghton Library and Amherst College.  These are text-searchable and encoded in TEI.  Images of each of the manuscripts including any extant variants or drafts of poems are available in high resolution for close examination. All of the previously established indexing schemes, (e.g. Johnson\'92s and Franklin\'92s) are referenced in the metadata in addition to established dates of authorship). Directly reflecting the original publishing feud between the Dickinson and the Todd descendants, work on the archive was at times contentious as previous conflicting assertions of final authority on the definitiveness, refinement, and boundaries of the collection were brought up anew. However, a deal was struck where digital copies of all materials would be shared amongst the partners. The archive also notably leaves aside poetic scraps and fragments from Dickinson\'92s late life that exist outside of Franklin\'92s archival work, as featured in Marta Werner\'92s online archive \'93Radical Scatters.\'94 At the time of release it was argued by Werner and Michael Kelly of Amherst College (both on the archive\'92s advisory board) that the initial collection of materials largely reinforce the authority and predominance of Franklin\'92s work, which, like Thomas Johnson\'92s initial volumes, had been done with the support of Harvard University Press.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs32 \cf2 =========================================}