{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs26 On frequency analysis\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 	Frequency analysis acts as a primary tool for computational analysis of literature. It\'92s important to be very specific about what we mean we talk about that. The notion of a \'93word\'94 in a text typically gets generalized into the term, \'93token.\'94 The reason for that shift is apparent once you practice this kind of analysis. It can be challenging to understand when a unique word is really being used in conjunction with another to relay a compound concept to a reader. So, for instance, if an author wrote the term \'93chewing gum\'94, a less-than-careful word-counting algorithm might look at that and record it as two words \'96 which it is. And if we were to apply a less-than-careful part of speech tagger to the same text, it might understand \'93chewing\'94 as a verb and \'93gum\'94 as noun. All the meanwhile, an English speaker would interpret that correctly as a noun phrase that employs an adjective to denote a real world object: \'93gum\'94 that is used for \'93chewing.\'94 For an English speaker those last few sentences describe something very obvious, but for an algorithm that is built to count words, it\'92s not. Thus the description of terms in a text as \'93tokens\'94 becomes imperative. Thus the objective of frequency analysis is to count tokens. And the counting of tokens for the sake of precision \'96 what we also call quality \'96 can be a very handcrafted art. \
	Literary scholars face the challenge of confronting statistical philosophy when performing this kind of analysis. Is it really necessary to attempt to make our text-turned-data as high quality as possible for subsequent modeling, analysis, and interpretation? For a techne that intends to be as precise as possible, with analyses sometimes turning on the existence of a single word, the answer to that question must be an emphatic \'93yes.\'94 In fact, even if it can be proven that, statistically, a model produced from two data sets is more or less the same it remains a judgement call for the scholar if that \'93more or less the same\'94 is sufficient for them to proceed. The factors of time and accuracy in research must be weighed in concert just as much as the content itself. They often dictate the efficacy of our work up to a certain degree.  How much time am I willing to spend ensuring my data is of high quality before I proceed with the modeling of it? How much quality is necessary for a particular modeling technique or for the type of analysis and interpretation I intend to provide? These questions are implicit information, but checking back in with ourselves on our current answers to them is not merely \'93process text.\'94 Instead, the effort poses a subsequent philosophical challenge or question for all stripes of humanities scholars: What are my own criteria for quality when it comes to my object of research? Not much differs between leaning on the alleged soundness of a modeling technique and leaning on the theorem of central tendency. For practitioners of a field where qualitative and thus culturally-impactful understandings of its objects are the desired outcomes, both assumptions about the quantitative, methodological soundness can lead us astray. Much like a non-digital piece of literary scholarship that might turn on hapax legomena, so too do its digital counterparts often turn on small differences in measurement. Arguments of \'93more\'94 and \'93less\'94 are deployed far more frequently and implicitly than discussions of how and why they are deployed appear. \cf2 It is up to humanities scholars to vet quantitative soundness by (im)posing our own qualitative criteria for interpretation against it.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
	One good example of this is the productive line of quantitative analysis and reasoning in stylometrics that has led to thoughtful metrics such as Burrows\'92 Delta. <Explanation of delta here>\
While delta has been used as a means of understanding the closeness between documents and thus likelihood of attribution for works of unclear authorship, it also can be a touchstone in this quest for producing a measure of literary data quality. Since delta \
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs26 Next Steps/Prose\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 	1.	Prose explaining Bolts of Melody vs Emily Dickinson Archive \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Token frequency comparison as component of data quality\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Unitary frequency analysis quality(ies) vs quality from comparative frequency analysis\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}Code up comparisons\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Explain the work and the thought process behind the work\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}What\'92s are its goal(s)?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	3.	}Prose and examples of more advanced frequency measures\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Mendenhall\'92s Characteristic Curves of Composition\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Kilgariff\'92s Chi-Squared Method\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}John Burrows\'92 Delta Method\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}See Laramee\'92s stylometry intro for details\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Why use them and how they are related to data quality in this context\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
\
Fuzzy string matching techniques\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0{\listtext	1.	}Character overlap\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Jaccard measure\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl2{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}"the percentage of unique characters that two strings share when compared to the total number of unique characters in both strings\'94 (Taming Text, FSM, 4.1.1.)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Jaro-Winkler distance\
}