{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx540\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs56 Art of Literary Modeling\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sa160\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\fs22 \'93[T]here were views to consider (from the building, of the building), the fall of light across its floor, the movement of air around it, the ambient sounds, the angle at which it met the late-day sun.\'94 \
\'96 Michael Pollan, 
\f2\i A Place of My Own: The Education of an Amateur Builder
\f1\i0\fs26 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1 	The creation, modeling, and interpretation of literature all share a seemingly innocuous characteristic: they all begin and end in socially- and physically-situated spaces. What would that have to do those processes? In the late 1990s for instance, before he became a celebrated food author, Michael Pollan ventured to create a space from which to write \'96 and then he wrote a book about the process from that space. Pollan explores the connections between the physical spaces we inhabit and how they alter our interpretations of the world around us. But also, tellingly, how that outside world informs the creation of those spaces. By journey\'92s end, he gazes out a large window at a desk surrounded by his books. It bears beginning a work on the qualities of modeling literature with this ending. The constructed vantage of an author is laden with consequence for the work of storytelling. That is, the work of representation begins with perspective. Pollan uncovers the roots of his desire for such a perspective, tracing them back to the introduction of the lockable writing desk in 16
\fs16 th
\fs24  century Europe, and then to private rooms like studies for writing desks and books \'96 private spaces to think while surrounded by the ideas of others and from which one could look upon the world with remove.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\fs28 \
It ends with a house with a room\
\'93capturing data is not passively accepting what is given, but actively constructing what one is interested in.\'94\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1 	Toward the end of 
\f2\i Distant Horizons 
\f1\i0 (2019), Ted Underwood qualifies the risks of distant reading. He states that subjective evidence is central to the argument he has been making about/in favor of distant reading throughout the book, and that that argument also \'93resist[s] the notion that a firm boundary can be drawn between measurement and interpretation\'94 (Underwood 147). Toward the beginning and end of 
\f2\i Deep Learning with Python
\f1\i0  (2018), Fran\'e7ois Chollet alludes to this challenge from the other side of the qualitative-quantitative divide: \'93Deep learning is more of an art than a science\'94 (Chollet 223). What does developing the correct neural network architecture for a research problem require? It requires \'93practice\'94 and \'93intuition\'94 (60). Sure, experts like Chollet and Underwood can give you \'93best practices\'94 and \'93principles\'94 (60) and \'93guidelines\'94 (223). But in the end, experience and the particular question and problem set at hand will prevail. \'93There is currently no theory that will tell you in advance precisely what you should do to optimally solve a problem. You must iterate\'94 (223). This is the horizon line of the blurred problem space between two spheres of culture modeling that have seen themselves largely as qualitative or quantitative in their most recent histories. The irony of it all is the similar apprehensiveness with which both authors/disciplines approach that space. The humanists are unsettled by the fixity, reductiveness, and supposed discipline-disrupting allure of quantification. The scientists are unsettled by the ambiguity, complexity, and supposed theoretically-devoid character of qualitative decision making. The unpaved path along that line offers the solution, a place where both interpretation and measurement are used conscientiously. Exploring this improvisational and exploratory art (or 
\f2\i techne
\f1\i0 , for the classical-minded) of modeling literature is the subject of this work.
\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::2>}