{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \

\f1\b In Search of the Canonical Digital Edition
\f0\b0 \
\
I want to pose a question about the practice of literary modeling by paraphrasing and extending a question posed by John Guillory in his exploration of the cultural capital of literature. What is the relationship between the formal characteristics of a piece of writing and the institutional conditions that enable its composition and select it as the perfect text for use in research and pedagogy? Guillory identifies three \'93matrices\'94 involved in canon building and literary criticism: \'93compositional\'94, \'93generic\'94, and \'93linguistic.\'94 If we transpose these to the tasks of computational modeling and subsequent literary criticism, what gets laid bare is the site and foundation of those tasks: the digital edition. But what is a digital edition let alone a 
\f2\i canonical
\f0\i0  one?\
So very often we are treated to familiar notions of canonicity considering a work and the nature of its representativeness - of an era, of a thematic, of an authorship, of its characters. Guillory notes that some of these senses can become conflated and confused, and often for political reasons \'96 
\f2\i political
\f0\i0  meaning in reference to the norms of literary culture and as much as it relates to external social politics. Guillory hopes to instead insist on \'93the interrelation between representation and distribution\'94 (vii-viii) and to tease apart the sense of representation as in \'93representative of a constituency\'94 and representation as in the \'93relation between an image and what the image represents\'94 (vii-viii). The reason he wants to do so is because of the \'93unfortunate\'94 effect where those those fighting the \'93symbolic struggle\'94 for the former sense of canonical representation overestimate its political effectiveness and distract from the latter sense, namely, the \'93social and institutional conditions of symbolic struggles\'94 (vii-viii). Guillory feels this imbalance actually undercuts canonical representation because it only considers the surface - who works seem to be representing and not the
\f2\i  
\f0\i0 reason why such representation comes to be in the first place.\
How this relates to the notion of digital edition is that we are often considering precisely the former sense of representation - that of representative of a constituency - when we include digital works for modeling. But we rarely we consider the who/what/how/when/where/why of the edition itself being used other than an often vague reference to the authority of its original creators. The closest we come to this is the quantitative representation that basic modeling can provide us: counting words in such a way that gets us to more of an \'93exact\'94 or \'93good enough\'94 measure between a digital edition and its analog counterpart. This uncertainty of data quality however creates a silent vacuum for the act of computational literary modeling and subsequent analysis and interprertation from it. For if we are not certain about the character of the bases of our models, we cannot be certain of the character of our models, analyses, or interpretations! We have to processes to consider: digital edition formation and digital canon formation \'96 which digital works are selected for use: reading, modeling, and analysis.\
Canon formation includes the work involved in creating an edition, but it is an antecedent process and rarely viewed as transfigurative toward canonization of the work. For digital editions, this is not the case. This could be said of both analog and digital editions of a work, but given the mode and often less tangential transformations and sites a digital work visits, especially the latter. \
We also have no formalized systems for preserving this metadata - just ones piecemeal across sites of work and archive. There are however means of measuring }