{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-BoldItalic;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Introduction prose\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Introductory Statement for 
\f2\i Art of Literary Modeling
\f3\i0\b0 \
\
Toward the end of 
\f4\i Distant Horizons 
\f3\i0 (2019), Ted Underwood qualifies the risks of distant reading. He states that subjective evidence is central to the argument he has been making about/in favor of distant reading throughout the book, and that that argument also \'93resist[s] the notion that a firm boundary can be drawn between measurement and interpretation\'94 (Underwood 147). Toward the beginning and end of 
\f4\i Deep Learning with Python
\f3\i0  (2018), Fran\'e7ois Chollet alludes to this challenge from the other side of the qualitative-quantitative divide: \'93Deep learning is more of an art than a science\'94 (Chollet 223). What does developing the correct neural network architecture for a research problem require? It requires \'93practice\'94 and \'93intuition\'94 (60). Sure, experts like Chollet and Underwood can give you \'93best practices\'94 and \'93principles\'94 (60) and \'93guidelines\'94 (223). But in the end, experience and the particular question and problem set at hand will prevail. \'93There is currently no theory that will tell you in advance precisely what you should do to optimally solve a problem. You must iterate\'94 (223). This is the horizon line of the blurred problem space between two spheres of culture modeling that have seen themselves largely as qualitative or quantitative in their most recent histories. The irony of it all is the similar apprehensiveness with which both authors/disciplines approach that space. The humanists are unsettled by the fixity, reductiveness, and supposed discipline-disrupting allure of quantification. The scientists are unsettled by the ambiguity, complexity, and supposed theoretically-devoid character of qualitative decision making. The unpaved path along that line offers the solution, a place where both interpretation and measurement are used conscientiously. Exploring this improvisational and exploratory art (or 
\f4\i techne
\f3\i0 , for the classical-minded) of modeling literature is the subject of this work.}