{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 December 20, 2024\
\
When I was younger, I would watch 
\f1\i Star Trek: The Next Generation
\f0\i0 . There were all sorts of literary figures and things on this show. Some, you wouldn\'92t even think were literary. What do I mean by the word \'93literary\'94? Well, if you think about it it\'92s anthing associated with the writing or reading of history. History. That\'92s a funny word too. Any gender association with the word aside, it\'92s our story. Humanity\'92s story. So who gets to tell it? And what will they be telling when they do? That\'92s why 
\f1\i Star Trek: The Next Generation
\f0\i0  and any other science fiction like it is such a notable place to start this story about literary modeling. You have Patrick Stewart, the actor who himself is very literary. A famed stage actor whose own life and his character Captain Jean-Luc Picard turns much of his thought and decision-making on humanity\'92s literary figures and books. You have Levar Burton whose life, aside from award-winning acting, is almost entirely associated with storytelling and literacy. His famed television show 
\f1\i Reading Rainbow
\f0\i0  taught generations of children the importance of reading and of stepping into other people\'92s shoes. He continues that tradition to this day with a storytelling podcast. Burton\'92s character on Star Trek, Chief Engineer Geordi LaForge, is also very closely associated with literature and storytelling but not in the same traditional ways that Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) is. As an engineer aboard the starship Enterprise in the particular 24
\fs18 \super th
\fs26 \nosupersub  century the story is set, Geordi oversees the ship\'92s many holodecks. What is a holodeck? Holodecks are rooms where the prospective technology of holography is used to place people in that room into wholly different environements, fictive, distant in space and/or time. These environments can feature anything imaginable too: water, sunsets, historical figures like Plato or Mark Twain, fictional figures like Ahab or Sherlock Holmes, storylines with plots, operas, trees, animals,\'85 The only limit is one\'92s imagination and the ship\'92s computer\'92s ability to generate it using light waves to model and mimic the sight, sound, feel, smell, and even taste of those things. Given our technology at this point in the 21
\fs18 \super st
\fs26 \nosupersub  century it\'92s actually not so difficult to believe that mimicking these things via light is possible. We know that because of how statistical modeling has been merged with machine learning so that we can model the world. Some of the major impediments between us and this fictive 24
\fs18 \super th
\fs26 \nosupersub  century technology are the computing power to create these models \'96 and to do so convincingly \'96 and the technology that emits light in such a way that it could convincingly be used to represent virtual environments, virtual objects, and virtual people. But there is another impediment that was not really mentioned in 
\f1\i Star Trek: The Next Generation 
\f0\i0 or subsequent Star Trek shows. Sure, we had a few chances to see characters talk of building holographic worlds and storylines for other characters to experience, but we did not hear much of anything about 
\f1\i who
\f0\i0  and 
\f1\i how
\f0\i0  the historical and literary information that is available to the ship\'92s computer came into being. \
When I would be watching the show, and to this day, I would often ponder the answer to those questions because it does matter 
\f1\i who
\f0\i0  provided those stories and that information and 
\f1\i how
\f0\i0  they did it. That\'92s because in order retrieve, process, and store that data each step along the way requires notable means of subjective synthesis. There are many versions of stories and of history. How do we decide which to choose? You might be saying to yourself at this point, \'93Well, who really cares? 
\f1\i Star Trek: The Next Generation
\f0\i0  is an entirely fictional story.\'94 You\'92re not wrong. But given the state of the technology we have today where machine learning has birthed deep learning and large language models, we can already see the beginnings of those syntheses. Ten years ago at Dartmouth, I was giving one of my first digital humanities talks. The topic was a plot-generating book by a 1920\'92s pulp novelist. In the 1920\'92s, fiction publishing was really being turned into an industry. Authors were churning out more books than ever before to a hungry reading public, and also so that everyone in the publishing industry could make a consistent living. William Wallace Cook made a book called 
\f1\i Plotto
\f0\i0  which contained an intricate and deep plot generating system which authors could use to construct the bones of their stories before filling in the details. At the time, there was also much optimism about automation and the beginnings of roboticism were taking hold of the public\'92s imagination. One newspaper story, associated with Cook\'92s new plot-constructing book even featured the image of a robot, stating, \'93In the future, robots will tell our stories.\'94 I made sure to put that one up on a slide in my talk. I did so partly as a joke, but also because I could already foresee how machine learning could be used to generate convincing stories. In the future, we will continue to have human authors \'96 the reason being that history remains our story as humans and humans will remain interested in other humans\'92 stories. However, it may not be a human who is doing the telling of those stories. And 
\f1\i that
\f0\i0  is our real world connection to 
\f1\i Star Trek: The Next Generation
\f0\i0 . We know that in our future, \'93robots\'94 or \'93artifical intelligence\'94 will be telling our stories from statistical models of the texts that we compose and that have been composed by our predecessors. The focus of my writing within is on the literary models from which our stories will be told and how the quality of those models can ensure that those stories are synthesized and told as accurately as possible to the future humans hearing them. 
\f1\i Who
\f0\i0  fed those stories and information to our future computers and 
\f1\i how
\f0\i0  did they do it? How does humanity interface with a digital future? I believe we are at a time in history where some of us will get to be those people and to decide how we do so.}