{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Introduction prose\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Borderline\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2 	One summer I drove up the pine-lined coast of Vancouver Island in British Columbia. I didn\'92t have any particular destination in mind. The prospect of Tofino had occurred to me, but that would be several hours further along the coast. The region, what Americans refer to as the Pacific Northwest, is somewhat lesser known in the American imaginary. To describe the landscape briefly, it is a place where mountains and large coniferous forests directly meet the Pacific ocean. The beaches of this place are also comparatively alien, particularly to someone who has spent their life in the east, where fine sand beaches are more common. In the northwest, one finds rocky beaches composed of small to medium sized stones. The colors are extraordinary. Amid the giant sea stacks and escarpments, the foamy surf of the water washes up and recedes upon these stones that glisten in pinks, greens, oranges, blues, and purples \'96 products of volcanism, water, wind, and time. Even the more common basalt grey ones shine under a typical cloudy day. The summer time however brings long spells of sunshine. I stopped my car at a small, nameless beach park where only a few travelers or area residents were sitting and begin to hike toward one of the bordering escarpments where a giant pine was perched. The erosion had exposed some of its finer roots the saltwater and air. I clambered over the boulders at the base of this outcropping, as best as a non-native could. These types of giant rocks, immediately adjacent to the place where water greets the land, are notorious for their danger, covered in slick seaweed, anemones and razor-sharp, black mussels. Further along and closer to the escarpment, I entered a small cave \'96 really more of an arbor considering the tree\'92s roots jutted down from overhead. This was a calm place, sequestered away from even the scant amount of people a few dozen yards away. The cave cut underneath the escarpment and continued around away from the beach. To my surprise, I found the path led upward through the soil and to the small, grass and moss covered area around the tree. From this vantage, I saw the boulders below, the stone beach, the people, but now even more: the coastline leading northward, oceangoing vessels, more pine-covered islands and mountains in the far distance.\
	These kinds of perspectives \'96 on the beach, over top the boulders, inside the cave, above on the tree\'92s perch \'96 all inform an experience of what would be considered the world outside our interior spaces \'96 our homes, office buildings, and the rooms and spaces inside them. As we venture into more metaphorical (and metaphysical) spaces provided by computers, the contrast with the exterior space has been extended, one step further removed from such a wild, if serene scene. The computer itself acts a technological extension of our mind\'92s interiority. The subsequent virtual spaces on it reflect as such (desktops, windows, bins, folders, file systems, and on).  But the metaphors we use to move in and comprehend any of these spaces turn out to be universal. Grasping to understand a concept within a virtual, interior, or exterior space follows a similar heuristic:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}We situate ourselves from a particular position in that space.\
{\listtext	2.	}We observe objects from that vantage.\
{\listtext	3.	}We measure them.\
{\listtext	4.	}We produce determinations, comparisons, and inferences.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
	From the tree\'92s perch, I observe the pine-topped island across the water, a gigantic ferry slowly moving away from shore, the miniscule person reading on the beach. The relationships between these objects produce a sense of space and perhaps quietude. They are less tangible in the moment, but I know that with some effort I could proceed towards them, albeit with some considerable effort. Yet, during and by journey\'92s end, my perspective on them will have changed. In my office, the scale of the space and my conception of it circumscribes that kind of physical possibility. Yet, as it does so, the possibilities for heightened attention and exploration of the objects in the room become more possible. These choices of space and perspective then become generative of the perceptions and conceptions that are produced from them.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Further thoughts\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Spaces and objects with relationships forming the theoretically possible\
{\listtext	2.	}Why do we build big windows looking out onto that exteriority - the fear of the loss of perspective when moving indoors. The desire to be able to have large perspective while being interior, occuping interior physical, psychological, virtual spaces\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::2>}