{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Notes
\f2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Sketching out the reasoning behind the Chapter 1 - Dickinson, Publications, and Data Quality\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f3 \
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Emily Dickinson studies tend to be directed in a few notable and understandable ways. They have a natural progression. The first is to read through her poems and parse them. The second is to relate her poems to her biography. The third is to recover the chronological and fascicle/bundle orderings and to reinterpret the observations of and inferences about the first two readings through these new, authorially-grounded lenses.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}These two questions of ordering take hold. What was the progression of her drafting of these poems and what does that chronology say differently about the poems? Secondly, regardless \'96 or perhaps in concert with \'96 that chronology, what do the fascicle/bundle arrangements say about those poems when they are no longer read in isolation?\
{\listtext	3.	}The above have been fundamental stakes in addition to biographical and bibliographical discoveries as scholarship has proceeded over time.\
{\listtext	4.	}To put Dickinson herself at a remove once again however can give us yet another context in which to, perhaps selfishly, understand the power of publication orderings and the quality by which our observations and inferences from those arrangements are made.\
{\listtext	5.	}In considering how both a reader and a researcher can interpret a digital collection of works, particularly in its own vacuum with no known contextualizing provenance, we can get a sense of how the state of those materials affect that encounter. What are the effects of that cutaway or lens?\
{\listtext	6.	}Now qualitative approaches to understanding are well-practiced \'96 at least in research circles. (Publication ordering scholar references here.)\
{\listtext	7.	}But to make more concrete some of our observations on the effects that lens/cutaway produced by a particular publication\'92s editing and arrangement, we can use metrics of data quality.\
{\listtext	8.	}Those metrics chosen and shaped by humanities scholarly concerns can provide a foundation for further qualitative scholarship (e.g. different types of reading) or more quantitative scholarship (e.g. computational modeling). Regardless of the nature of that further work, implementing and utilizing metrics of data quality for a collection materials involves 
\f4\i hands-on
\f3\i0  work.\
{\listtext	9.	}As we will see, the degree to which that hands-on work is feasible is dictated by the size of the collection and the scope of the intended research. As such, as size and scope increase, with time being a limited resource, data quality necessarily decreases.\
{\listtext	10.	}This is what one might call a known known. \'93Distant\'94 reading is famous for this observation. Quality of understanding at the sentence level might suffer, but the types of observations that can be made a \'93higher\'94 macro level are both potentially new and informative to disregard that loss in quality.\
{\listtext	11.	}But chief to that disregard, or wave of the hand to a necessary evil, is an understanding of the nature of that loss in quality.\
{\listtext	12.	}To ground the question at hand: 
\f4\i What
\f3\i0  is lost when we move from examining one or a handful of Dickinson poems to examining over a thousand? (And as a corollary, 
\f4\i When
\f3\i0  (or at what \'91level\'92) is that lost?)\
{\listtext	13.	}And 
\f4\i that
\f3\i0  is why implementing and utilizing metrics for data quality (and later on, as we will see model and visualization quality) become key to establishing more justifiable and authoritative interpretations of literary models.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::2>}