{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 The questions I\'92m interested in answering\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\fs26 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 How can we make useful/imaginative interpretations of and conclusions about local information (read: novel, poem, article, etc.)?\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs26 \
Let\'92s say we have 100 ideas, each of them represented by a bag of words. Let\'92s pick some arbitrary division of them. Of the 100 ideas, 2 of them are \'93good\'94 (maybe they led to successful novels, music, inventions, etc.) and 98 of them are \'93okay\'94 to \'93bad.\'94 How could I locate those 2 good ideas among  the 100? Well, I could use internal information only - word frequencies, topics, sentence structure, parts of speech patterning, etc. But at such a small scale (in both number of things and counts of words), ascertaining whether or not I have representative sample given that smallness is not possible. Similarly, it may not be possible to distinguish notable differences given the small sample and small counts of the features (the modeling method we are using to distinguish ideas, in this case).\
So, where can we look to make that determination? The answer must be outside, from evidence (in this case, written evidence) emanating from the culture in which those ideas were formulated. We need to understand the 
\f3\i contexts
\f2\i0  within which those ideas originated. Let\'92s say you have or create a model (via similar, chosen modeling method) about a larger set of evidence from the outside world. For instance, you have a word vector model of thousands of written elements from that culture - the composition of which can be circumscribed for relevance.\
Our goal is to create a mapping (via some kind of transformation; linear, etc.) between the outside world model space and the model of the 100 ideas (space). The next task is to be able to locate an appropriate subspace in the model to calculate the translation. We can locate \'93good\'94 ideas in the outside world model and formulate a subspace of that model based on those elements that pertain to those \'93good\'94 ideas. Once we do that we can further filter the subspace. For instance, locating every word in the 100 ideas in the \'93good\'94 ideas elements (documents, etc.).. The values of those words in the outside world model (i.e. words in a word vector model) can be directly compared to the values of those words in the comparable ideas model. \
Once we have a set of transformation values, we can create a summary rating for the closeness of each idea in the 100 idea set to the good idea elements from the outside world model. The closer in value, the more likely an idea from the 100 idea set is to be similarly \'93good.\'94\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Further considerations\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs26 	1.	Is this akin to a more manual approach to supervised learning? \
{\listtext	2.	}Is this akin to (k-means) clustering?\
{\listtext	3.	}Furthermore, this value of this heuristic can be tested via cross validating approaches that test to see if good idea elements from the outside world model are successfully rated as good ideas when they are taken out of the sample good ideas set.}