{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 Chapter 2. Model Quality
\f1\b0 \
\
What if the successful prediction of part of a literary data set was a determiner of the soundness of a literary model? \
\
This kind of evolutionary framing animates possibilities for the study of literature via computation. \
\
The soundness we are invested in ensuring in our objects of study becomes all the more necessary when the same kinds of objects studied at larger scales.\
\
 In parallel, it becomes increasingly important to pay close attention to the qualities of models created from those data sets the more complex those models become. \
\
Though a model itself presents a simplification of a complex system of interacting literary elements \'96 words, sentences, paragraphs, chapters, books, etc. \'96 the terms with which those models are proposed, created, and interpreted are filters and lenses under which research into those elements unfolds. What is hidden from a model\'92s view of its literary components? Which does a model highlight and bring into focus? Where do we decide to interject the model? And when?\
\
These decisions are ones made for non-computational modeling of literature as well. \
\
This locative and demonstrative staging of a model is the subject of the work to follow. \
\
Taking a step closer to the page will demonstrate the volatility and precarity of model qualities \'96 two characteristics that though at first seemingly aberrant will become the means by which we can open up new understandings of the texts and literatures we have studied for well over a century and for the new literatures of the future. \
\
Whereas the small changes in data quality among the works from New York Public Library and HathiTrust produced distinctly different models and potential conclusions from those models, altering model types and their parameters to include humanities considerations of representation will construct entirely different perspectives on the same data set.\
\
It\'92s not much of a surprise that formal model selection criteria is an old playground for statisticians. \
\
In fact, it is the formality of it that derives from schools of thought of representation that may be the most surprising to humanities scholars. For us, a series of \'93turns\'94 in literary study have marked cultural changes in perception in fields of literary study.  These cycles of conflict between new and old schools of thought are well documented by Russian formalist Tomashevsky.  see Jurij Streidter\
\
Michael Pollan windows\
\
}