{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi675\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 A group of digital humanists, much like any concentration of specialized geeks at one table, proves a most entertaining gathering. At a conference dinner I sat next to a senior professor who specializes in text mining. As the evening wore on with food and wine, talk of life, field gossip, and war stories of projects past and present, I turned to them and pondered aloud something that I had been considering after years of working on such projects. At this point you can guess what I asked them.\
\
\'93Sometimes I think that maybe we are doing a disservice to our successors by not devoting significant effort to developing rich datasets.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I see your point,\'94 they replied. \'93But I would like to work on research problems too. It\'92s a bit more exciting.\'94\
\
Mind you, I am paraphrasing, but that was the gist of the exchange. I don\'92t fault them for their reply in the least, but it is telling of the state of things for the field, and perhaps even larger, our information age. This mindset \'96 that I too have shared \'96 formalizes and energizes our smallish subfield of study. But it must be said that dataset creation and curation is undoubtedly also a research problem. It is not merely a step along the way to uncovering hidden patterns of culture- and meaning-making. \
\
The balance between defining well the bases of literary research and the modeling solutions we wish to use to look for answers will never be a solved equation. Nor should it ever be. For researchers, performing what may seem like the drudgery of thoughtfully crafting a data set will never hold quite the same amount of excitement as asking questions about those materials and looking for those answers. The tension of those two activities hold the key to successful research. We do need well-considered data that draw in useful and interesting descriptive information about source materials while also historically and culturally contextualizing those materials. But we do need exciting work as well. We need to produce questions that actively drive interest in literature and work on statistical/computational methods. 
\f1\i Both
\f0\i0  open up possibilities for future research, and future avenues of research. This is the tension between the carpenter and architect. One cannot exist without the other. Each activity has a meaningful and complementary contribution to make to the practice of literary modeling. The architect \'96 as we know the more prominent activity of digital humanities \'96 is text mining and modeling, making decisions about how to shape and position their data for analysis. But the carpenter, the person creating and shaping the data set that underlies those models (the data really being a model itself) also makes decisions about the possible models that can be derived from that data.}