{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b Examining full table of contents. Notes describing initial findings are below
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Multiple points of access to the letters, one of which is \'93constellations\'94\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}
\f3\i \'93Constellations consist of more than one document that are versions of all or part of a poem. In this critical edition of selected Dickinson texts, twenty-five out of thirty writings represented are part of a constellation. Our focus on the material page means that we view multiple instantiations of the same poem as separate texts, linked but autonomous. By encoding each manuscript separately and constructing constellations of linking between them, we acknowledge that each version possesses its own context and genealogy while bearing some significant relationship to other manuscripts; this practice also resists the notion that any one version is privileged over another. Users are encouraged to use the Image Tool and the Virtual Lightbox to compare and contrast documents within these constellations and analyze their relationships and our descriptions of them.\'94 
\f0\i0 (Source: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/constellation-help.xqy"}}{\fldrslt https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/constellation-help.xqy}}, accessed May 23, 2019)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b Full description from Table of Contents page ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/contents.xqy?exp=on"}}{\fldrslt https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/contents.xqy?exp=on}})\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1
\f0\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}
\f3\i Table of Contents for Emily Dickinson\'92s Correspondences: A Born-Digital Textual Inquiry
\f0\i0 \
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93This scholarly edition provides several contexts for the writings included here, and our Table of Contents offers different points of entry for examining these writings. Each column below offers one of those points of entry, either by the first line of the writing; by the constellation of a writing and its versions; by the library catalog in which a document now resides; by the way in which various editors have reported on the document. Users can manipulate the order in which they want to examine these writings. Click on a column head to sort the table of contents according to the order featured in that column. You will know which arrangement is apparent in your view because the column name that you click will appear in italics, with a thin black border on the left side of the column ( | ). Documents that you have already viewed will appear in gray, in contrast to those you have not yet seen, which appear in black. Clicking on any title or number in any cell opens the document with the sorting order set to the column in which it appears. Still more ways of organizing and selecting documents for view are available through the advanced search option.\'94\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93Every document included in this selected edition was either sent to Emily Dickinson\'92s primary correspondent (according to materials that have survived, more writings were sent to Susan Huntington Dickinson than to any other correspondent) or bears a powerful relationship to a writing sent by Emily to Susan. In other words, this edition includes writings to Susan Huntington Dickinson and other versions of those writings that were either sent to another correspondent or included in a manuscript book or left on a loose sheet among Dickinson\'92s papers.\'94\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93The primary goal of this edition bears repeating: we focus our examination of the Dickinson materials by focusing on the manuscripts and their diversities. Some manuscripts are completed poems (in that they appear to be finalized, at least temporarily), while others are finalized letters. Other manuscripts are clearly drafts, while still others are fragments and scraps from Dickinson\'92s compositional stages. The correspondence to Susan Dickinson features all of these types of documents, and that is yet another reason that we chose our selected materials from writings sent to her. Moreover, the writings to Susan Dickinson provide the only example we have of Emily Dickinson rewriting a poem at another\'92s behest.\'94\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93Total number of documents in collection:  
\f1\b 74
\f0\b0 \'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b Make sure to thank UVA Press and David Sewell (Manager of Digitial Initiatives)
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b Notes on Errors for David Sewell
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Missing page \'93Standard Editions\'94 at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/standard-eds.xqy"}}{\fldrslt https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/standard-eds.xqy}}\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Constellation error ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/constellation.xqy?title=A+narrow+Fellow+in+/+the+Grass&uri=DEAmsEDCSHDhb193.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsMBa88_13-14.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsEDCTWHbpl23.1b.xml&"}}{\fldrslt https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/constellation.xqy?title=A+narrow+Fellow+in+/+the+Grass&uri=DEAmsEDCSHDhb193.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsMBa88_13-14.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsEDCTWHbpl23.1b.xml&}}) on Chrome: 
\f3\i Uncaught TypeError: window.document.imagesCompareGallery.SetVariable is not a function\
    at chtext (constellation.xqy?title=A+narrow+Fellow+in+/+the+Grass&uri=DEAmsEDCSHDhb193.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsMBa88_13-14.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsEDCTWHbpl23.1b.xml&:8)\
    at onload (constellation.xqy?title=A+narrow+Fellow+in+/+the+Grass&uri=DEAmsEDCSHDhb193.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsMBa88_13-14.1b.xml&uri=DEAmsEDCTWHbpl23.1b.xml&:28)\
}