{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 The Art of Literary Modeling
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\fi720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
This story has to begin with the counting of words \'96 for that is how we began. What do we count when we count words? And why are we doing it? Are we obliterating meaning in the search of new truths? Or can those original truths of reading be recovered and enhanced by the act? Let\'92s begin with a simple example to illustrate the problem. Shakespeare\'92s 
\f2\i Richard III
\f1\i0  begins with Richard speaking on his brother Edward\'92s accession to the throne of England. \'93Now is the winter of our discontent\'94 \'96 it\'92s a famous one and hopefully familiar enough in sound to you to notice any changes.  It continues on another 37 lines from there. Cleaned up by a text analysis tool, the same speech might look quite different. For instance, here Richard\'92s original first sentence compared with that cleaned up version.\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Now is the winter of our discontent\
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;\
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house\
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 winter discontent\
glorious summer sun york\
clouds lour'd house\
deep bosom ocean buried\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\fi720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
Let\'92s observe what has happened here. On the left in the original, Richard claims that his family\'92s time of \'93discontent\'94 is over. This new time period has been made \'93glorious\'94 by Edward\'92s accession (and the murder of Henry VI). The metaphorical skies have cleared, his family\'92s problems buried away. The sentence is in two parts divided by the semicolon, the second part a reiteration of the idea in the first. With all of these words buried away, what meanings can we glean from this same passage cleaned by our tool? We can guess, but without foreknowledge of the play, it\'92s a rorshack. Maybe the amount of our tool\'92s pruning was excessive though. One could imagine something like this below instead.\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
Now is winter our discontent\
Made glorious summer by sun of York;\
And all clouds lour'd upon our house\
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\
}