{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-BoldItalic;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{diamond\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9670 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 The Choreography of Norms (adapted subtitle)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Quotes from Chapter 6: The March of Reason in 
\f2\i Critical Mass
\f1\i0  by Philip Ball\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\fs26 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u9670 
\f3 	}
\fs24 \'93Social scientists have tended to assume that any kind of complex behavioral patterns like these requires complex motives and planning. But bacteria do not have complex motives, for they do not have brains. They cannot conspire to decide what to do next. Neither is there some Master Bacterium dictating their movements. And yet the coordination of the spiraling motion is astonishing. If, as this indicates, such patterns of motion can arise without volition, is it conceivable that people might sometimes fall into similar patterns unguided by any plan or intention?\'94 p.120
\fs32 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u9670 
\f3 	}\'93Collective behavior is a common phenomenon in nature, and these feats of cooperation sometimes go well beyond swimming in circles.\'94 p. 121\
{\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u9670 
\f3 	}Dictyostelium discoideum \'96 \'93These single-celled organisms go their individual ways when times are good, when food and water are plentiful and the weather is warm. But come drought, famine, or bitter cold and the slime cells seek mutual support.\'94 p. 121\
\pard\tx560\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 Thoughts on the above excerpts\
\pard\tx560\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\fs32 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	1.	}
\f3\b0 These same notions can be applied and tested to the style and qualities of literary writing over time and cultures and political events.\
{\listtext	2.	}What if literary phenomena act as such unguided, but seemingly intelligent swarms reacting to external stimuli. (What is that stimuli? It may not be relevant to exactly pinpoint, but rather that the authors are reacting.)}