{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid4\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I\'92ll begin with an experiment, and tell you in advance that it\'92s going to fail. How do I know? you ask. Well, I already tried it. How I got to failure: now that\'92s what matters. Over the course of a literary experiment, just like any other, tried and true notions will fail.\
\
What are the characteristics that you wish to consider when siting a model?\
\
\'93Charlie had said that key elements of my building\'92s design\'85would be determined by this 
\f1\i first fact
\f0\i0 .\'94 [italics mine] (Pollan 31)\
\'93[T]here were views to consider (from the building, of the building), the fall of light across its floor, the movement of air around it, the ambient sounds, the angle at which it met the late-day sun.\'94 (31)\
\'93Dwell too long on so many soon-to-be-set-in-stone characteristics and the decisions is liable to paralyze you.\'94 (31)\

\f2\b \'93I felt that by choosing its site \'96 a single place out of all possible places in which to build \'96 I was setting this great big contingency in motion, rolling it down the steep, one-way hill of personal and local history.\'94 (31)\
\
Views of the Building/Views from the Building [of a Literary Model]
\f0\b0 \
\
What are the links between a data subset and its wider context/full dataset?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}These links will be key transitions between a model built and other possible models built\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}One possibility for these is shared fields\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}But the more salient possibility are fields that share or impart together (in combination) dynamics in the data set\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}So first step would be to detect those dynamics - large and small trends\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2880\fi-2880\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl3\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Think basic statistical values (max, min, mode, median, mean)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}