{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1 	Jonathan Armoza is an English PhD student at New York University where he works on the development and theorization of new text analysis and data visualization methods for digital humanities. His work focuses on nineteenth century American literature, most notably the poems of Emily Dickinson. His academic background includes degrees in computer science and literature from University of Maryland and University of Washington. He has worked as a software engineer, game programmer on titles such as 'Civilization' and 'Scribblenauts,' and as a technical consultant for Google where he began his digital humanities work volunteering on Google Books\'92 Ngram Viewer. Jonathan has been involved with the international digital humanities community over the last decade and has been invited to give talks on his research throughout the United States, Canada, and Europe. He is the recipient of the Canadian Society for Digital Humanities\'92 2017 Ian Lancashire award for Outstanding Graduate Research for his introduction and application of matrix factorization modeling to literature. His visualization, "Topic Words in Context" (TWiC) is used by researchers and in classrooms. It allows users to spatially explore topic models of collections of texts in a web browser, showing how the model operates at the level of the collection and its individual texts. Its design and application in exploring Dickinson's fascicle poems were the subjects of his Master's thesis at McGill University. \
	Jonathan\'92s recent projects include a collaboration at University of Edinburgh called \'93Working with Scraps\'94, a interactive and browsable reimagining of Scottish poet laureate Edwin Morgan\'92s scrapbooks. For the past several years, he has worked as part-time neuroscience researcher and developer at SimExp Lab in Montr\'e9al, designing and implementing AI language experiments for test subjects reading in MRI scanners. His ongoing dissertation, \'91The Art of Literary Modeling,\'92 demonstrates new scholarly activities that provide context-sensitive, evidentiary bases for making interpretive claims from computational models of literature. It borrows and adapts ideas from information science, statistics, and design to give humanities-centric understandings of quality for datasets, models, and visualizations.
\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}