{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 	\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\b\fs36 Introduction prose\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f0 A model represents. It is constructed and positioned. It does many things. It moves from the complex to the simple. Sure. But it also sits in space. It shares contexts \'96 physical, technological, and cultural. A model conveys not only that which it represents, but its authorship and lineage, the milieu in which it was formed and for what purpose(s) it was formed.  Consider also that the act of modeling is undertaken by a practitioner in a particular discipline. The selected perspective of a model then is not just its relation to that which it represents, or also to the personality that formed it. The disciplinary context that provided that personality their <cause to model> drives its existence. As denizens of the Information Age confronted with the impracticality of the profound amounts of information we have acquired, we turned to modeling. The act was always there, but its primitive and implicit nature were belied by the ego of complexity. That is something that must be declared from the outset \'96 this new understanding that arose from the ashes of that age. In order to deal with the world, we model it. It is an inescapable fact that the world is more complex than our brains and our senses can deal with. We select characteristics of things. We measure them. We group those things together by those characteristics. Analyze, interpret, criticize, and repeat. The qualitative natures of those acts however are still realities we are grappling to entertain and to utilize with an informed ethics. For virtually any scientific discipline, the action of modeling itself is reflexive and genetic. In comparatively rarer instances, it is also philosophized. In fields that deal with the construction of physical objects, like architecture or mechanical engineering, the model is so intrinsic and foundational, that the fields could scant exist without the notion. In literary studies, a field so-described as more \'91qualitative\'92 and \'91interpretive\'92 in its outputs, the actions of modeling are very implicit. \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\b\fs36 Notes\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f0 Martha Nell Smith (mention Coleman) returns us to the metaphor for Emily\'92s project and her own of housebuilding, of poem building, of collection building. So let us continue on to build a literary model. And first we will start by marking our 
\f3\i site
\f0\i0 .\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Martha Nell Smith on the project of Emily Dickinson and the Dickinson Editing Collective\'92s project of transcribing/digitizing her work\

\f3\i\b0 "Because the Plunge from the Front Overturned Us: The Dickinson Electronic Archives Project"\
Studies in the Literary Imagination 32:1 (Spring 1999)
\f2\i0\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://archive.emilydickinson.org/plunge1.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::1>
\f0 http://archive.emilydickinson.org/plunge1.html}}
\f0\b0 \
\'93In poems such as "Myself was formed - a / Carpenter - " (F 22; P 488), Dickinson herself compares the work of a writer to that of a builder, and in lyrics such as "I dwell in Possibility - " (F 22; P 657) compares poetry itself to a "House." In this metaphorical scheme of things, a poem's "front" is comparable to that of a house. Constructing a house, the last things built are those things most easily visible--the frontispiece of brick, wood, paint, doors, shutters, porches, roofs; making a poem for conventional public distribution, the last things "built" are the pages of the book in which it appears, the frontispiece of typesetting, arrangement, font, paper type.\'94\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\b\fs36 To do\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Two things needed:\
1. Example of modeling in the sciences\
	Emily Dickinson in 
\f3\i Nature
\f0\i0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}ref. mood disorder - Vivid imaginings by Kay Redfield Jameson \'97 Book review of 
\f3\i Eccentrics
\f0\i0  by David Weeks and Jamie James (1995)\
\pard\tx560\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0      Emily Dickinson in NLP journals\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}in ACL - Gagliano et al - \'93Intersecting Word Vectors to Take Figurative Language to New Heights\'94\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. Example of modeling in the humanities (pre-digital)}