{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 Intrinsic Data Quality
\f1\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Intrinsic DQ denotes that data have quality in their own right; understood largely as the extent to which data values are in conformance with the actual or true values. Intrinsically good data is accurate, correct, and objective, and comes from a reputable source. Dimensions include: accuracy objectivity, believability, and reputation.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In order for a data consumer to have a perception of intrinsic qualities of data, he or she must understand 
\f3\i what the data is intended to represent
\f1\i0  and 
\f3\i how the data effects that representation
\f1\i0 . If the data is not aligned with a consumer\'92s assumptions about these things, the consumer will perceive it as inaccurate or unbelievable. \
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
	For the purposes of this exercise, the edition of Mark Twain\'92s 
\f3\i The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
\f1\i0  on Mark Twain Project Online will be considered as the ground truth for comparisons of digital editions of the novel. Other editions include several iteratively edited editions from \'93Project Guteneberg\'94 and several raw OCR scans from editions found on \'93The Internet Archive.\'94 (All editions being used for comparison, regardless of the quality of content, are in the very least complete in that they contain all chapters of the novel\'85..though maybe not for the sake of things like accuracy/objectivity?)\
	
\f0\b What the data is intended to represent
\f1\b0 : the original text of Mark Twain\'92s novel 
\f3\i The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn\
	
\f0\i0\b How the data effects that representation:
\f1\b0  the digital text transforms the novel away from leaf/page form into a continuous stream, demarcated only by chapter divisions. Poor scan quality renders the text \'93unreadable\'94 \'96 or, in the very least, a challenge to read. It also affects the perception of the quality of modelinmg possible from the data (the digital text). Even if the amount by which poor scan quality actually effects modeling is a quantitative unknown, it becomes (or is perceived as) a qualitative known.\
	
\f0\b Consumer\'92s assumptions:
\f1\b0  That the text be readable, that the text contain all of the chapters.\
	
\f0\b Accuracy 
\f1\b0 - The extent to which data are correct reliable, and certified free of error. (Wang and Strong)\
	
\f0\b Objectivity
\f1\b0  - The extent to which data are unbiased (unprejudiced) and impartial.\
	
\f0\b Believability
\f1\b0  - self-explanatory, apparently\
	
\f0\b Reputation
\f1\b0  - self-explanatory, apparently\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Contextual DQ points to the requirement that data quality must be considered within the context of the task at hand, understood largely as the extent to which data are applicable (pertinent) to the task of the data user. The focus of contextual DQ is the data consumer\'92s task, not the context of representation itself. For example, contextually appropriate data must be relevant to the consumer, in terms of timeliness and completeness. Dimensions include: value-added, relevancy, timeliness, completeness, and appropriate amount of data\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Contextual DQ points to the idea that the quality of data is defined to a large extent by the intended uses of data. \
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Representational DQ indicates that the system must present data in such a way that it is easy to understand (represented concisely and consistently) so that the consumer is able to interpret the data; understood as the extent to which data is presented in an intelligible and clear manner. Dimensions include: interpretability, ease of understanding, representational consistency, and concise representation.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1
\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Representational DQ emphasizes the role played by the specific presentation of data within a system. Data can be perceived as incorrect if the consumer does not understand the conventions through which a system presents it. 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Accessibility DQ emphasizes the importance of the role of systems; understood as the extent to which data is available to or obtainable by the data consumer. The system must also be secure. Dimensions include: accessibility and access security. \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl1
\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Accessibility DQ points to another aspect of systems design. If a consumer cannot get to the data, then he or she cannot judge its quality by any other criteria. 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}