{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red46\green169\blue29;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20437\c70235\c14705;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Notes\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b\fs26 In Search of Quality; And not the one you\'92re thinking of, either.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2 What we seek when we look for the 
\f3\i qualities
\f2\i0  of a piece of literature began to confuse me. What is close reading? What was distant reading? When did those terms make meaning? And when did they change? What struck me as I considered these kinds of questions that have phased in and out of fashion with digital humanities scholarship is that underlying all was one that gave every one of them the shakiest of foundations. And here it is:\
\
		
\f1\b \cf2 What is the difference between a quality and a quantity?
\f2\b0 \cf0 \
\
Digital humanities (or whatever what one may want to call it) has risen on the crest of the fear of quantification. It insists that counting things may be revelatory of new meaning. I\'92ll illustrate this with a hypothetical conversation, and then provide an example afterward.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Person 1:
\f2\b0  Well, what is it that is being counted? \

\f1\b Person 2:
\f2\b0  A quality or qualities of that thing. \

\f1\b Person 1:
\f2\b0  Okay. How would you describe a quality?\

\f1\b Person 2:
\f2\b0  An array of attributes that prompt that thing being labeled.\

\f1\b Person 1:
\f2\b0  Okay. So there are one or more attributes that cause something to be labeled as having a quality. How would you describe that attribute?\

\f1\b Person 2:
\f2\b0  Well that thing either does or doesn\'92t exhibit that attribute. Okay.\

\f1\b Person 1: 
\f2\b0 So you could say that the exhibition of that attribute exists in a range? At some point that thing assumes that attribute, either like a switch on-off, or gradually so.\

\f1\b Person 2:
\f2\b0  I suppose you could say that.\

\f1\b Person 1:
\f2\b0  Okay. So a quality is quantifiable.\

\f1\b Person 2:
\f2\b0  Now, I don\'92t know about that!\

\f1\b Person 1:
\f2\b0  In fact, you might say that the notion of quality rests on implicit, quantified measurements.\

\f1\b Person 2:
\f2\b0  Now you\'92ve just gone too far.\
\
That shaky question, as it turns out, is not just whether or not there is a difference between a quality and quantity, it\'92s if the notion 
\f3\i quality
\f2\i0  arises from cursory attention to detail.\
\
Why is this important? It goes to the heart of the current questions before many different types of researchers considering how to use computational tools to accurately extract meaning from passages of text, and for literary scholars, whether or not they\'92re usable at all for the questions that have traditionally been asked by their field(s). And if 
\f3\i quality
\f2\i0  is more indicative of inattention than not, or at least of the comforting \'93good enough\'94 soup in which we navigate our everyday lives, then quality must be revisited, redefined, and reconfigured for the purposes of digital literary study.
\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::2>}