{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Art of Literary Modeling\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\b\fs26 Chapter 1 \'96 A New Activity\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
	I began this work with a struggle. Something was in the way. A typical beginning for computational text analysis work considers a literature and a question you want to ask about it. You gather your text, either in some form already digitally transcribed or do some of the arduous manual labor yourself \'96 scanning, using varying optical character recognition suites, cleaning up poorly recognized characters and words, and maybe even preparing the subsequent digital text(s) with a particular regularization suited to your intended form of counting or modeling technique. Now you\'92re ready to measure and re-represent your object in some way. You run a modeling method over varying-sized portions of the text and alter parameters of the model as needed. After a few iterations and comparisons or combinations of those models, you\'92re ready to intrepret this new representation. Next observations might include what macro patterns you find moving their way across the work or multiple works that you weren\'92t able to recognize before? Perhaps they confirm or disconfirm prior hypotheses of these works. But perhaps I have just constructed a cartoon.\
	This approach produces an air of something veritably wrong in the context of qualitative interpretation. Let\'92s step back to the beginning of this workflow, the part where text was gathered. What happens between the action of gathering and the moment one \'93finishes\'94 that process? What sign tells you that you are now ready to create a model of that literature? Nothing guarantees that you are. What, for that matter, is a model for use by the humanities anyway? Once the qualities of all of these constructs come into question what once seemed such a fundamental and sound workflow, as described above, feels a lot more mushy. It\'92s no news that humanities scholarship is often defined by its embrace of the subjective and perspectival. And the more that scholarship and its practitioners take on the guise of more \'93objective\'94 observation of those same materials, the more it comes to bear to ask, What are the guidelines and structures that inform that objectivity?\
	That question brought me to ask two other metrical ones. What are the qualities of humanities data as they relate to import for the scholar? And, what are the qualities of humanities data as they relate to the soundness of a model created from that data? These two questions receive their answers from both the history of scientific and humanistic discovery. They respond to the essential quandary that fed my struggle to describe a central, if little-mentioned problem: 
\f1\b What is data quality for the humanities?
\f2\b0  I have set out to answer this question in the following chapter. Answering it requires a new activity for computational text analysis. It requires not only the careful preparation and attention to our sources of data (as we are so often admonished to do) but also as important, the theoretization and construction of a quality framework for one\'92s textual data set. For not only is the transformation of a text from paper to digital fraught with chances for error, so too is the move from digital text to model, the activity that is at the heart of computational text analysis in digital humanities, and other forms of cultural analytics. That problematic has to do with a philosophical default, the thought that when we approach a digital text \'96 barring whatever transformations and omissions have occurred to bring into into digital form \'96 that we are dealing with it 
\f3\i in situ
\f2\i0 . \
	A text is in its place on your computer in memory, a digital file with a system file ID, extending from one memory block until it ends at another. That is one of its physical presences in its most basic, digital and structural forms. However, through decomposition and filtering, that same text may be transfigured. If this object is to be the foundation of all that is intended to follow then its placement and the perspective of it from within and from without must be considered. A text in its initial construction is one perspective. Subdivided, rearranged, completely reordered, it is another. And yet, it retains the building blocks of that original, and when reconstructed back into that form, those very different perspectives can be illuminating of the original. At the dawn of our new era of the popularization of digital humanities, Franco Moretti and the Literary Lab called this an \'93elaboration of reality\'94 (Moretti, \'93Operationalizing\'94). In truth, this activity of reconfiguration is far more than an extension. It is the genesis of a \'93new\'94 mindset about a past object. While a new conception on a text is a truism in the scope of humanities knowledge production, it turns out that it is also an integral part understanding data quality for the digital humanities \'96 and as we\'92ll eventually see for model and visualization quality as well. Since the metaphors and actual substance of computational modeling are so spatial in nature, and since the history of humanistic inquiry itself has depended upon such metaphors, I have found it only suitable to look to a central, experiential metaphor to describe why perspective on data is so visceral in our attempts to understanding it. It is is the construction of and our physical relationship with a house.\
	In Michael Pollan\'92s 199x book, 
\f3\i A Room of My Own
\f2\i0 , \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\

\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>}