{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue27;\red255\green255\blue255;\red205\green26\blue29;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c85098\c18824\c14510;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 1. Please consult pp. 18-20 of the PhD Handbook and write a few sentences comparing your progress in the past year to the model schedule described.\
\
I would say I am behind the listed model, but have been making steady progress in the past year on data curation, code, and prose for the first two chapters of the dissertation. I have also taken on some work to make up for the lack of fellowship support. Due to my digital humanities summer fellowship during the summer of 2021 however, I was able to make significant progress on the core project and methodology for my second chapter. And as a result of that work, gained momentum towards my work on the first chapter. (Since my dissertation entails a discussion of both data quality and computational model quality for literary studies, the topics are codependent across chapters.) Since then, I have fully curated over a dozen digital copies of the novel I am now using as an exemplar for the first chapter (Twain\'92s Huckleberry Finn swapped with Dickinson\'92s varied poetry publications), composed and computed data quality metrics specifically for them, and put together/revised prose I have had on hand for the first chapter.\
\
2. If you are at the dissertation stage, please indicate your current working title and an approximate date when you last met via Zoom with your director and/or committee. Feel free to describe why/when in a few words.\'a0\cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 *\
\
The Art of Literary Modeling; February 24, 2022, Check in on progress and some prose review.\
\
3. \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Specifically in reference to the last year, what academic, professional or other activities and accomplishments (if any) would you like the department to know about?\cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 \'a0*\
\
1) Winner of NYU\'92s Digital Humanities Summer Fellowship in 2021. This project involved the creation of a model for detecting aphorisms via Mark Twain\'92s three-volume autobiography. (Code: https://github.com/jarmoza/twain_autobio_modelquality) A short talk on this work was given at the NYU Digital Humanities showcase on October 7 (https://nyuhumanities.org/event/2021-digital-humanities-showcase/)\
2) A cowritten paper, "The T3 - an open, large, human-annotated benchmark for biological and artificial semantic representations", featuring my past work on language models and fMRI experiment design for Simexp Lab at the Montreal center for research in geriatric medicine is being finalized and prepared for journal submission.\
3) I am collaborating on the development of conceptual metadata models and related web tooling for the annotation, harmonization, and agglomerated search of multi-site/multi-corpus datasets via Origami Lab at the Montreal Neurological Institute (technology compatible with both humanities and scientific datasets).\
\
4. \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Please designate a department faculty member whom you would like to assist the department in this annual review. (The Director of Graduate Studies or a delegated member of the Graduate Program Committee will consult orally with that faculty member as part of the departmental review process.)\cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 \'a0*\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\
Tom Augst}