{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs56 Chapter 1 Planning\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\b\fs36 Outline\
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1 \
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 Chapter Introduction\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\b\fs26 Part 1\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1 	1.	Intro on reasoning for data quality assessments\
{\listtext	2.	}Review of data quality ideas from several fields (information science, computer science, \'85)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Discussion of concepts as they exist in those fields ad how they are continguent on context\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0{\listtext	3.	}Introduction to ideas on how data quality can be used for computational literary studies\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Why data quality is important for that work\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\b\fs26 Part 2\
\pard\tx220\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1 	1.	First demonstration of data quality for literary studies using the metric of word frequency as it changes within a text/whole work\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Mark Twain\'92s 
\f4\i The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
\f1\i0  via \'93Project Gutenberg\'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0{\listtext	2.	}Demonstration of word frequency with different data cleaning heuristics (tokenization, stop word lists ,stemming, etc.) within the same volume\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Different API versions of those cleaning methods\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0{\listtext	3.	}Third demonstration of word frequency for data quality, this time across editions of 
\f4\i The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
\f1\i0  from \'93Project Gutenberg.\'94\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\
Huckleberry Finn play within the novel\
\

\f2\b Part 3
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0{\listtext	1.	}Introduction to Emily Dickinson publication history and data quality problem of editions\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Consider a few Dickinson poems\
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	
\f2\b \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\b Chapter Introduction - A New Activity
\fs26 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 \
	I began this work with a struggle. Something was in the way. A typical beginning for computational text analysis work considers a literature and a question you want to ask about it. You gather your text, either in some form already digitally transcribed or do some of the arduous manual labor yourself \'96 scanning, using varying optical character recognition suites, cleaning up poorly recognized characters and words, and maybe even preparing the subsequent digital text(s) with a particular regularization suited to your intended form of counting or modeling technique. Now you\'92re ready to measure and re-represent your object in some way. You run a modeling method over varying-sized portions of the text and alter parameters of the model as needed. After a few iterations and comparisons or combinations of those models, you\'92re ready to intrepret this new representation. Next observations might include what macro patterns you find moving their way across the work or multiple works that you weren\'92t able to recognize before? Perhaps they confirm or disconfirm prior hypotheses of these works. But perhaps I have just constructed a cartoon.\
	This approach produces an air of something veritably wrong in the context of qualitative interpretation. Let\'92s step back to the beginning of this workflow, the part where text was gathered. What happens between the action of gathering and the moment one \'93finishes\'94 that process? What sign tells you that you are now ready to create a model of that literature? Nothing guarantees that you are. What, for that matter, is a model for use by the humanities anyway? Once the qualities of all of these constructs come into question what once seemed such a fundamental and sound workflow, as described above, feels a lot more mushy. It\'92s no news that humanities scholarship is often defined by its embrace of the subjective and perspectival. And the more that scholarship and its practitioners take on the guise of more \'93objective\'94 observation of those same materials, the more it comes to bear to ask, What are the guidelines and structures that inform that objectivity?\
	That question brought me to ask two other metrical ones. What are the qualities of humanities data as they relate to import for the scholar? And, what are the qualities of humanities data as they relate to the soundness of a model created from that data? These two questions receive their answers from both the history of scientific and humanistic discovery. They respond to the essential quandary that fed my struggle to describe a central, if little-mentioned problem: 
\f2\b What is data quality for the humanities?
\f1\b0  I have set out to answer this question in the following chapter. Answering it requires a new activity for computational text analysis. It requires not only the careful preparation and attention to our sources of data (as we are so often admonished to do) but also as important, the theoretization and construction of a quality framework for one\'92s textual data set. For not only is the transformation of a text from paper to digital fraught with chances for error, so too is the move from digital text to model, the activity that is at the heart of computational text analysis in digital humanities, and other forms of cultural analytics. That problematic has to do with a philosophical default, the thought that when we approach a digital text \'96 barring whatever transformations and omissions have occurred to bring into into digital form \'96 that we are dealing with it 
\f4\i in situ
\f1\i0 . \
	A text is in its place on your computer in memory, a digital file with a system file ID, extending from one memory block until it ends at another. That is one of its physical presences in its most basic, digital and structural forms. However, through decomposition and filtering, that same text may be transfigured. If this object is to be the foundation of all that is intended to follow then its placement and the perspective of it from within and from without must be considered. A text in its initial construction is one perspective. Subdivided, rearranged, completely reordered, it is another. And yet, it retains the building blocks of that original, and when reconstructed back into that form, those very different perspectives can be illuminating of the original. At the dawn of our new era of the popularization of digital humanities, Franco Moretti and the Literary Lab called this an \'93elaboration of reality\'94 (Moretti, \'93Operationalizing\'94). In truth, this activity of reconfiguration is far more than an extension. It is the genesis of a \'93new\'94 mindset about a past object. While a new conception on a text is a truism in the scope of humanities knowledge production, it turns out that it is also an integral part understanding data quality for the digital humanities \'96 and as we\'92ll eventually see for model and visualization quality as well. Since the metaphors and actual substance of computational modeling are so spatial in nature, and since the history of humanistic inquiry itself has depended upon such metaphors, I have found it only suitable to look to a central, experiential metaphor to describe why perspective on data is so visceral in our attempts to understanding it. It is is the construction of and our physical relationship with a house.\cf2 \
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx0\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\b\fs36 Body\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\b\fs26 Part 1\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1 	1.	Humanities data analysis has always used quantitative measurement even when it appeared in \'93qualitative\'94 form. The work of comparison that analysis involves makes the use of proportionality inevitable. In truth, the difference between \'93qualitative\'94 and \'93quantitative\'94 analysis is not very clear, nor are the terms themselves so well-delineated. This confused basis sitting at the root of research signals the urgency of clearly understanding how our culture and its objects are described \'96 and thus also 
\f4\i defined
\f1\i0  in an age where information is ineffably inflected by computation. As the heuristics of data processing and information delivery scale upward, our sense of the quality of that data and the conclusions we can draw from it also fades more and more. Yet our needs for information are sometimes so pressing, be they research-, business-, or journalism-driven, that the question lingers as to the quality of the data we rely on for that information. And there are many means researchers and industry professionals have developed to assess that quality. However, the key to all of those means is the 
\f4\i context
\f1\i0  of the data and resultant information \'96 the context of a data source, the context of the tools used to measure and filter that data source, and the cultural context from where interpretations of those measurements and filtering occurs from. For computational text analysis, a form of humanities data analysis experienced now by people around the world via news reporting, a comprehensive means of data quality assessment has not been developed. One reason for this is that this form of data analysis, often due to its small data scale and purported lack of need for the exactitudes of science and business, has been deemed \'93soft\'94 or too perspectival to be verifiable  \'96 and thus not as worthy of attention and methodological development. This question of data quality can no longer be allowed to linger given the now-widespread consumption and influence of humanities data analysis. There are ramifications beyond the potential for inaccurate interpretations and conclusions for research that include how humanities disciplines are viewed and in turn sustained through funding and cultural support. The writing below is an attempt to provide an answer for the question of what data quality for the humanities could look like. It is an exploration where the \'93qualitative\'94 interests of humanities research take precedent even if they inevitably stand on the shoulders of quantitative methods \'96 because, of course, they always have just not so explicitly.\
{\listtext	2.	}Among the most accessible places we can look for this answer are other fields who have undertaken a study of data quality for their own purposes. The first one we shall look to is information science.\
{\listtext	3.	}Are metrics of data quality for literature correlative with/predictive of \'96\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl1{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}literary qualities\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\b\fs26 Part 2\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><$Scr_H::2>
\f1 	1.	
\f2\b\fs26 On frequency analysis\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 	Frequency analysis acts as a primary tool for computational analysis of literature. It\'92s important to be very specific about what we mean we talk about that. The notion of a \'93word\'94 in a text typically gets generalized into the term, \'93token.\'94 The reason for that shift is apparent once you practice this kind of analysis. It can be challenging to understand when a unique word is really being used in conjunction with another to relay a compound concept to a reader. So, for instance, if an author wrote the term \'93chewing gum\'94, a less-than-careful word-counting algorithm might look at that and record it as two words \'96 which it is. And if we were to apply a less-than-careful part of speech tagger to the same text, it might understand \'93chewing\'94 as a verb and \'93gum\'94 as noun. All the meanwhile, an English speaker would interpret that correctly as a noun phrase that employs an adjective to denote a real world object: \'93gum\'94 that is used for \'93chewing.\'94 For an English speaker those last few sentences describe something very obvious, but for an algorithm that is built to count words, it\'92s not. Thus the description of terms in a text as \'93tokens\'94 becomes imperative. Thus the objective of frequency analysis is to count tokens. And the counting of tokens for the sake of precision \'96 what we also call quality \'96 can be a very handcrafted art. \
	Literary scholars face the challenge of confronting statistical philosophy when performing this kind of analysis. Is it really necessary to attempt to make our text-turned-data as high quality as possible for subsequent modeling, analysis, and interpretation? For a techne that intends to be as precise as possible, with analyses sometimes turning on the existence of a single word, the answer to that question must be an emphatic \'93yes.\'94 In fact, even if it can be proven that, statistically, a model produced from two data sets is more or less the same it remains a judgement call for the scholar if that \'93more or less the same\'94 is sufficient for them to proceed. The factors of time and accuracy in research must be weighed in concert just as much as the content itself. They often dictate the efficacy of our work up to a certain degree.  How much time am I willing to spend ensuring my data is of high quality before I proceed with the modeling of it? How much quality is necessary for a particular modeling technique or for the type of analysis and interpretation I intend to provide? These questions are implicit information, but checking back in with ourselves on our current answers to them is not merely \'93process text.\'94 Instead, the effort poses a subsequent philosophical challenge or question for all stripes of humanities scholars: What are my own criteria for quality when it comes to my object of research? Not much differs between leaning on the alleged soundness of a modeling technique and leaning on the theorem of central tendency. For practitioners of a field where qualitative and thus culturally-impactful understandings of its objects are the desired outcomes, both assumptions about the quantitative, methodological soundness can lead us astray. Much like a non-digital piece of literary scholarship that might turn on hapax legomena, so too do its digital counterparts often turn on small differences in measurement. Arguments of \'93more\'94 and \'93less\'94 are deployed far more frequently and implicitly than discussions of how and why they are deployed appear. \cf2 It is up to humanities scholars to vet quantitative soundness by (im)posing our own qualitative criteria for interpretation against it.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 	One good example of this is the productive line of quantitative analysis and reasoning in stylometrics that has led to thoughtful metrics such as Burrows\'92 Delta. <Explanation of delta here>\
While delta has been used as a means of understanding the closeness between documents and thus likelihood of attribution for works of unclear authorship, it also can be a touchstone in this quest for producing a measure of literary data quality. Since delta \
}