{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid4\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs26 \cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Next step is to flesh out Project Gutenberg (PG) story more\
{\listtext	2.	}Writing on the question of the scholarly edition industry (SEI) vs. the e-edition publication environment\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}PG does not publish in-copyright works\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Consider the data quality (DQ) dimension of 
\f2\i access
\f0\i0 \
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}An idealized text is a highly capitalized text\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Scholarly appartatus is manufactured by business\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Why would we want to put up with that instead of looking to \'93lower quality\'94 e-editions\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}This discussion of access can open up discussion of literary quality in terms of DQ and our relationship to data\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Think more about infrastructure of e-editions and in context of the publication of Twain/Twain\'92s 
\f2\i Huckleberry Finn
\f0\i0 \
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}What is PG\'92s role in literary studies?\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Is it key for digital humanities (DH) within our ecology of literary studies?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Let this be a chance to talk about the question of necesssity of scholarly and \'93authentic\'94 editions\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}The converse question of, \'93How 
\f2\i authentic
\f0\i0  or 
\f2\i authoritative
\f0\i0  or 
\f2\i close
\f0\i0  to the original must an edition be to be considered valid and worthy to be read, studied, and computed?\'94\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}How close is good enough?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}The apparatus of the definitive edition is ultimately commercial and part of cultural capital\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}If, for example, a free edition is 99% accurate, isn\'92t that worthy?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}What and how do/have these e-editions exist within the ecology of literary studies?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Is the question of, \'93What is literary data?\'94 answered in part by what it is that these transcribers value?\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Why did they make the choices/selections that they made?\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Is that a 
\f2\i new \'93literary\'94
\f0\i0 ? i.e. Widger\'92s choices\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2880\fi-2880\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl3\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Is this a more decentralized version of \'93literary\'94?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}The subject of this ecology re: literary quality and the question of accessibility as part of a data quality assessment is the prose context for the discussion of quantitative DQ metrics and ultimate assessment\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f3\b Literary Quality
\f0\b0 \
\
What are the qualities that compose the idea of \'93literary\'94 works?\
Is it strictly prestige via publication? Review? Purchase? Reading popularity in terms of sales?\
Is it what is taught?\
Is it what is popularly read on the internet? In other words, if in prior times when the main means of literary capture was through libraries, bookshops, classrooms, word of mouth, etc. what does the widespreadness from internet reading/download mean in terms of \'93literary quality\'94?\
Are internet reviews to be considered equivalent to reviews in notable publications if they in turn produce similar levels of influence?\
Certainly, internet reviews provide capturable metrics for literariness in that light since they can display the amount of times a review has been read and the amount of times a review has been found useful, even sometimes the rating a user might give a review itself.\

\f3\b \
\
Discussion
\f0\b0 \
\

\f3\b On Literary Data Quality and Prestige
\f0\b0 \
\
	One consequence of looking at data based on literature through the lens of its quality for computational modeling is that it forces us to confront values like prestige, accuracy, and authority \'96 values that are also associated with scholarly editions. Whereas in prior scholarship, sourcing/citing an edition that is lesser known, and, in turn potentially of lower quality, when a known, \'93high quality\'94 edition was available would be a puzzling choice. Here however, the prestige falls away. Accuracy within small percentage becomes less important and valuable than the degree of access to the material itself. A free edition vetted by volunteers can then be seen as more valuable for reference than one put out by a well-known publisher and set of scholars. The consequences of that devaluation are multifold and should be considered \'96 one of them, of course, is argumentation in support of looser copyright and open access to materials at least in tandem with the more \'93authoritative\'94 editions. To do otherwise puts into question the eponymous namesake of the scholarly edition? For who and for what is the goal of publication of scholarly editions? Juxtaposing that question with, \'93For who and for what is the goal of publication of free e-editions?\'94 inherently surfaces the role capital plays in scholarship.\
}