{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green48\blue63;\red250\green250\blue250;\red22\green158\blue69;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c19608\c24706\c31373;\cssrgb\c98431\c98431\c98431;\csgenericrgb\c8627\c61961\c27059;
\csgray\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{diamond\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9670 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{diamond\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u9670 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 Author:
\f1\b0  Sch\'f6ch, Christof\

\f0\b Title: 
\f1\b0 Big? Smart? Clean? Messy? Data in the Humanities\

\f0\b Source:
\f1\b0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://journalofdigitalhumanities.org/2-3/big-smart-clean-messy-data-in-the-humanities/#to-big-smart-clean-messy-data-in-the-humanities-n-3"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 http://journalofdigitalhumanities.org/2-3/big-smart-clean-messy-data-in-the-humanities/#to-big-smart-clean-messy-data-in-the-humanities-n-3}}
\fs22 \
\

\f0\b\fs26 Notes:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Questions Sch\'f6ch addresses\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9670 
\f1 	}What is the relation between the data we have and our objects of study? \'96 Does data replace books, paintings and movies? In what way can data be said to be representations of them?\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9670 
\f1 	}What difference does it make to analyze the digital representation or version of a novel or a painting instead of the printed book, the manuscript, or the original painting?\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9670 
\f1 	}What types of data are there in the humanities, and what difference does it make? \'96 I will argue that one can distinguish two types of data, \'93big\'94 data and \'93smart\'94 data. What, then, does it mean to deal with big data, or smart data, in the humanities?\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9670 
\f1 	}What new ways of dealing with data do we need to adopt in the humanities? \'96 How is big data and smart data being dealt with in the process of scholarly knowledge generation, that is when data is being created, enriched, analyzed and interpreted?\
\pard\tx560\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b Some distinctions for digital \'91data\'92\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9670 
\f1 	}\'93discrete rather than continuous\'94\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9670 
\f1 	}in structures\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9670 
\f1 	}structured types\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}structured (e.g. databases)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}unstructured (e.g. plain text - has implicit relations)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}semi-structured (e.g. xml)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b On data as representation\

\f1\b0 \
\'93Data is not the object of study itself, but \'93stands in\'94 for it in some way. Also, data is always a partial representation of the object of study. In some cases, however, it is our only window into the object of study. Still, this \'93disadvantage\'94 of partial representation is small compared to the the fact that digital data can be transformed, analyzed, and acted upon computationally.\'94\
\

\f0\b On criticism of the term \'93data\'94
\f1\b0 \
\
\'93Criticism has come from mainstream scholars who see \'93data\'94 and quantitative methods of analyzing them with suspicion, because the apparent empiricism of data-driven research in the humanities seems at odds with principles of humanistic inquiry, such as context-dependent interpretation and the inevitable \'93situated-ness\'94 of the researchers and their aims."\
\

\f3\i Drucker prefers the term \'93capta\'94 - \'93that which has been captured or gathered\'94 to data \'93that which is given.\'94 (and therefore \'91objectively\'92/\'91independently\'92 observed)
\f4\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'93\'85underlining the idea that even the very act of capturing data in the first place is oriented by certain goals, done with specific instruments, and driven by a specific attention to a small part of what could have been captured given different goals and instruments. In other words, capturing data is not passively accepting what is given, but actively constructing what one is interested in.\'94\
\

\f0\b\fs28 ****Sch\'f6ch\'92s Definition of \'91Data in the Humanities\'94****\

\fs24 \
\cf4 \'93Data in the humanities could be considered a digital, selectively constructed, machine-actionable abstraction representing some aspects of a given object of humanistic inquiry.\'94\
\

\f1\b0 \cf5 \'93\'85digital data add another layer of mediation into the equation. Data (as well as the tools with which we manipulate them) add complexity to the relation between researchers and their objects of study.\'94\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
}