{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red48\green150\blue3;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgenericrgb\c18700\c59000\c1000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 View the chapter/diss as a primer on talking about how to treat and understand literature as data
\f1\b0 \cf2 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1 	The study of literature in the West has gone through varying paradigm shifts over the last century. \
Within the last twenty years, texts rapidly have become more available in digital form. In tandem, the machines we read them on have become capable of running algorithms that process an increasing amount of them for the purposes of study. These changes have altered the physical, cognitive, and cultural processes used in their interpretation. Despite a change of medium for its objects of study, this transition is yet again an instance of the once new school becoming the old, and then meeting the new. This liminal moment begets a push and pull between means of defining meaning and quality for that literature. \cf2 What is literature when it becomes digital data? Does our reading of it change when it does? \cf0 Where do we look for the answer to and how do we understand the old question, \'93What is \'91literary\'92?\'94 \cf2 Is it even a relevant question anymore?\
\cf0 It is an idea created, stratified, and embellished across socioeconomic class of the author, publisher, and reading audience. Business and various interested institutions, academic and otherwise have constructed the notion \'96 a function of both economy and social prestige. \
\
	One of those paradigms in the early twentieth century that had doubt cast upon it is formalism and its various iterations. At its heart, formalism promises that meaningful structure and aesthetic can be found objectively in the writing on the page. The doubt came from the situatedness of the author\'92s prose and the person reading and interpreting it. These are both reasonable doubts for formalism\'92s hermeneutic tenets. However, the structural and aesthetic analysis that can be done often denote irrefutable qualities that do clearly exist in the writing, regardless of that situatedness. In fact, looking back at the doubt cast upon those formalist methods, we find that the doubt itself is just as culturally situated as its target.\
\
\cf3 (Produce formalist, structuralist, new criticism, etc. Example of analysis - perhaps of a Dickinson poem). \cf0 \
\
We must therefore conclude that our analysis and interpretations of literature irrevocably denote qualities imbued by our own times and experiences, that meaningfulness itself is situated. How we choose to engage in analytical and interpretive method is a matter style but also a function of its intended outputs. With that understanding, we can incorporate seemingly alien methods like algorithms and artificial intelligence to look at the literatures that we value, and from there what can we do to determine perhaps new meaningful structural and aesthetic qualities in the paradigm of reading literature as data.\
\
	A new layer of qualitative comprehension is produced via our treatment of literature as data. Depending on the context of study, there are numerous ways to understand our expectations of a dataset. \
Consider a business that runs web services for their clients that relies on a a daily stream of new data. While there are similarities in the relationship between the business/client and author/reader, the factor of time becomes much more important to the business. Time exists in a literary data set in multiple forms 
\fs22 \'96
\fs24  be it publication history or in the more abstract notion of narrative time \'96 but the action of prediction has a very distinct utility for the business\'92 data whereas for the literary data set it 
\f3\i may
\f1\i0  bear a less crucial one. Still, as the past years of research in digital humanities and cultural analytics have used prediction to great effect ine exploratory data analysis, uncovering macro trends in a multitude of characteristics of literature and the people involved in its creation. One could ask what purpose would it serve to predict something that is already concrete and whole other than one to hone the action of prediction itself? In addition to uncovering macrotrends, cultural analytics at that scale serve that methodological purpose as well. Aside from newfound materials for a deceased author, there is no daily data coming in to refresh our understanding of their works. In that way of thinking, it becomes to look inward at the work itself and just what it is that depicts meaningful quality for the study of text as data. Those qualities might differ from work to work, from author to author, from researcher to researcher. There may be, however, some generally useful, a posteriori qualities to attend to that could help us bolster that understanding of \'93literary.\'94\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1 	Let\'92s begin with two algorithms to see if we can produce meaningful, qualitative assessments of Emily Dickinson\'92s poems.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 \
Frequency analysis\
Topic analysis}