{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Notes\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b 	1.	Rotunda UVA press access granted to Emily Dickinson\'92s correspondences
\f2\b0  for a period of 2 weeks beginning May 22, 2019\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}credentials (u: T-JA-9355, p: NS9hRziZnc, expiry: Wed, 05 Jun 2019, 14:25)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}url: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.upress.virginia.edu/rotunda/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.upress.virginia.edu/rotunda/}}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 {\listtext	2.	}Thoughts\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1
\f2\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}The considered qualities of a cultural data set \'96 like a data set composed of literary content \'96 and metadata on that content must be composed of more than just the physical attributes and aspects of the underlying content and the particularities of its physical gathering. It must be acknowledged that the gathering of that data set was derived in a context and is perspectival. This is okay. It does not make the material \'93fettered\'94 by subjective aims. It is simply acknowledging the unavoidable interventions that researchers, librarians, and curators make when they perform the activities of archiving and curating that work. This is not 
\f4\i just 
\f2\i0 okay. This is a very good thing. When humans thoughtfully intervene with materials they become an author of them in more than just an aspirational sense. They become guardians and editors. So when we are modeling, we are not just modeling the materials, we are modeling the perspectives of those individuals, enriching and extending the cultural fabric of those materials. Their window frames.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Done\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 	1.	Gathered all tei files for the Emily Dickinson correspondences via two webscraping scripts\
{\listtext	2.	}Data and scripts are located in Users/PeregrinePickle/Documents/School/New York University/Dissertation/datasets/dickinson_correspondences\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs32 \
}