{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid402\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid502\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 Primary Sources\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Coleman - Measuring Data Quality.acsm\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Coleman screenshot.png\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Sebastian Coleman - Data and Architecture.pdf\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=1DA8D6F2-E2CE-44CF-A895-3D763C963867"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0 Chapter 7: Initial Data Assessment}}\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Data quality notions from Coleman
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx450\tx990\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li450\fi-450\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}granularity\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}expectations via data profiling and built into metrics/assessment\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}criticality assessment guidelines (an expectation assessment)\
\pard\tx1035\tx1485\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1035\fi-1035\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}a separation between data type and expectations: some have to do with the data, and others have to do with the modeling/questions desired to perform/answer\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}enumerate data types and enumerate expectations to show the differences between the two\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b Initial Assessment\
\pard\tx450\tx945\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li990\fi-990\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}<$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs26 	\'95	These expectations of the producers of the dataset may and will likely differ from those using it. A resolution those differences is helpful, but not always possible. See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://1DA8D6F2-E2CE-44CF-A895-3D763C963867"}}{\fldrslt Initial Assessment and Profiling notes on Laura Sebastian Coleman}}.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f4\i An Ongoing Process for Future DQ Considerations
\f1\i0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}\'93Initial data assessment produces valuable metadata (including specific baseline measurements) about the content, structure, and condition of the data being assessed. One goal of an initial assessment is to produce a set of 
\f0\b recommendations for data quality improvement
\f1\b0  and for ongoing measurement and control.\'93 (97)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl1
\f3\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}<!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs26 	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	\'93As part of the analysis, you should also 
\f0\b identify which data elements and rules appear to be most critical and most at risk
\f1\b0 . As you investigate questions raised by the assessment, you should actively seek input from business users about data criticality.\'94 (98)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}
\f0\b Much more is outlined in the linked document. Concise notes from Coleman for use in writing of this section.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \

\f0\b Measurement Types
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f0\b #1 Dataset Completeness \'96 Sufficiency of Metadata and Reference Data\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl1
\f1\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=2D9C0DC1-F59F-4137-873F-24554DC0AF93"}}{\fldrslt December 9, 2024 document}} for Coleman quotes and notes\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b Data quality quotes from Coleman\
\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 On Data and Architecture\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}<$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs26 	\'95	\'93In architectural drawings, the house will be depicted in a set of views showing the size, shape, and details of its structure. The purpose of an architectural drawing is to enable people to see what the house would look like and to make decisions about how it will be built. The accompanying floor plan, another model of the house, contributes to the process of understanding the size and shape of the house and is also necessary input to building the house. It contains details such as room size, the number of windows and doors, and the like that will influence the construction of the house. None of these models is the house itself, but all of them depict the house. Each represents a subset of characteristics important to the purpose of the representation. The same idea applies to data models.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'93When working with data models, it is important to recognize that there is not one-and-only-one way to model any given dataset. Put this way, models present a kind of chicken-and-egg problem: Do data define models, or do models define data? The answer is both. To be understandable at all, 
\f0\b data require context and structure
\f1\b0 . Data models provide a means of understanding this context. In doing so, they also create context. If data stakeholders find that models are understandable representations of data, then they can become a primary means of defining data.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\'93For most databases, especially data warehouses, models are critical to data management. The conceptual and logical models allow data managers to know what data resides in the data asset. The physical model has a direct bearing on how data is moved within the database, as well as how it is accessed.\'94\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}from just before \'93Physical Characteristics of Data\'94\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\b\fs26 Fully formed prose\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\f1\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=A863C1AD-9A7F-46F7-BF69-27DD841F0EB8"}}{\fldrslt Why do we consider data quality for literature?}}\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=615A81C9-65D0-4559-B006-15059F6CC026"}}{\fldrslt Where do we measure data quality and what are its underlying processes?}}\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=4D58821C-2B74-484B-A662-0F0EC2F502BA"}}{\fldrslt Chapter 1: Data Quality for Literary Models}}\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=ACD4F870-93D0-46B1-AEBA-C160FE6B591A"}}{\fldrslt Chapter 1 Opening Sections with Roadmap - Rough Draft}}\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=920F0195-6D66-455B-B7EA-CEC38465B98F"}}{\fldrslt The fit and misfit of data quality metrics on literature}}\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=A0586148-6C52-46BE-BD4E-1C9A6A48E656"}}{\fldrslt Chapter 1 Draft that includes Pollan, Literary, Dickinson, Coleman}}\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "x-scrivener-item:///Users/weirdbeard/Documents/school/aolm_full/writings/all/The%20Art%20of%20Literary%20Modeling.scriv?id=FA375BED-E51F-41C2-BB63-84D9CB50AD8C"}}{\fldrslt Earlier iterations of prose from Chapter 1 sections issued in Github and in docs on Google Drive}}\
}