{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-BoldItalic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs56 Art of Literary Modeling\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hughes, Ted. \'93Ted Hughes, The Art of Poetry No. 71.\'94 
\f3\i The Paris Review
\f2\i0 , Spring 1995. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.theparisreview.org/interviews/1669/the-art-of-poetry-no-71-ted-hughes"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 https://www.theparisreview.org/interviews/1669/the-art-of-poetry-no-71-ted-hughes}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f4\b\fs36 Chapter 1 - Data Quality
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f4\b\fs26 A New Activity\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 \
	I began this work with a struggle. Something was in the way. A typical beginning for computational text analysis work considers a literature and a question you want to ask about it. You gather your text, either in some form already digitally transcribed or do some of the arduous manual labor yourself \'96 scanning, using varying optical character recognition suites, cleaning up poorly recognized characters and words, and maybe even preparing the subsequent digital text(s) with a particular regularization suited to your intended form of counting or modeling technique. Now you\'92re ready to measure and re-represent your object in some way. You run a modeling method over varying-sized portions of the text and alter parameters of the model as needed. After a few iterations and comparisons or combinations of those models, you\'92re ready to intrepret this new representation. Next observations might include what macro patterns you find moving their way across the work or multiple works that you weren\'92t able to recognize before? Perhaps they confirm or disconfirm prior hypotheses of these works. But perhaps I have just constructed a cartoon.\
	This approach produces an air of something veritably but not always verifiably wrong in the context of qualitative interpretation. Let\'92s step back to the beginning of this workflow, the part where text was gathered. What happens between the action of gathering and the moment one \'93finishes\'94 that process? What sign tells you that you are now ready to create a model of that literature? Nothing guarantees that you are. What, for that matter, is a model for use by the humanities anyway? Once the qualities of all of these constructs come into question what once seemed such a fundamental and sound workflow, as described above, feels a lot more mushy. It\'92s no news that humanities scholarship is often defined by its embrace of the subjective and perspectival. And the more that scholarship and its practitioners take on the guise of more \'93objective\'94 observation of those same materials, the more it comes to bear to ask, What are the guidelines and structures that inform that objectivity?
\fs32 \cf2 \

\fs24 \cf0 	That question brought me to ask two other metrical ones. What are the qualities of humanities data as they relate to import for the scholar? And, what are the qualities of humanities data as they relate to the soundness of a model created from that data? These two questions receive their answers from both the history of scientific and humanistic discovery. They respond to the essential quandary that fed my struggle to describe a central, if little-mentioned problem: 
\f4\b What is data quality for the humanities?
\f1\b0  I have set out to answer this question in the following chapter. Answering it requires a new activity for computational text analysis. It requires not only the careful preparation and attention to our sources of data (as we are so often admonished to do) but also as important, the theoretization and construction of a quality framework for one\'92s textual data set. For not only is the transformation of a text from paper to digital fraught with chances for error, so too is the move from digital text to model, the activity that is at the heart of computational text analysis in digital humanities, and other forms of cultural analytics. \
	Self-reflection on the qualities of the evidence being used and the qualities of the model built upon that evidence can yield stronger results and a more sound basis from which to make interpretive claims. The hypothesis lays itself out plainly, but several questions arise when determining units and measurements for the quality of literary evidence. The first being, Why do this at all? 
\f5\i Evidence should have authority
\f1\i0 . A significant basis for the production of literary analysis is ethos whether it be that of the author themselves or the sources which an author cites. This prompts another question when considering quantitative measures in a field of study that traditionally produces and relies on evidence that is qualitatively-framed. What imbues quantitative evidence with authority? This work is entitled the 
\f5\i art
\f1\i0  of literary modeling for this purpose. There is no generic heuristic for authority. The informed judgment of the creator/user/interpreter of a dataset produces that authority. In order to effectively move qualitative interpretation into the intermediate realm of quantitative study the authoritative supporting materials, the judgment involve
\f4\b  
\f1\b0 in this techne or craft, must be quantifiable as well. 
\fs32 \cf2 \

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::3><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f4\b\fs26 Why a \'91literary\'92 model\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 	Those reading this may be forgiven for the assumption that my title\'92s term \'91literary\'92 necessarily refers to the qualities of the works that are modeled in the following pages. While the term itself is already loaded with meanings (as well as connotations both positive and negative), I wish to encumber it with another definition for the cultural context of our data- and information-rich times. The subject of this work is the modeling of humanities\'92 data (more on that in the first chapter), and thus the models will be created with the intent of harboring the goals of humanities scholarship. Those goals vary from field to field and even individual to individual, but, as we will see, humanities data modeling infers some other qualities not typically considered in more historically mathematical fields of study. A \'93literary model\'94 is therefore something imbued with a high quality, but not necessarily one just of statistical rigor. Rather, just as \'93literary\'94 can refer to the values both within a work and the external forces that elevate that work to a high status, so too will that extend to a humanities model of cultural objects  \'96 in this case of text and other media. A \'93literary model\'94 is still a model that quantifies and reduces in representation of its underlying objects, but it is more aesthetically rich, and one that is more sound because of that richness.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::3><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f4\b\fs26 \
<$ScrKeepWithNext>Siting a Literary Model\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\li720\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::4>
\f1\fs22 \'93I felt that by choosing its site \'96 a single place out of all possible places in which to build \'96 I was setting this great big contingency in motion, rolling it down the steep, one-way hill of personal and local history.\'94 (Pollan 31)
\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 <!$Scr_Ps::4>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 	The problematic of the move between digital text to model has to do with a philosophical and experiential default. It is the thought that when we approach a digital text \'96 barring whatever transformations and omissions have occurred to bring into into digital form \'96 that we are dealing with it 
\f5\i in (digital) situ, 
\f1\i0 and that text once placed within a collection of others sits in some whole form that must be unalterable and stable. But that is often not the case nor should that be our default position. To put the problem with that position in the frame of perspective: one looks at a collection top-down - as a whole - but what if you were to look at it from within or from the side? What defines a 
\f5\i meaningful
\f1\i0  perspective for a set of literary, textual data? A text is in its place on your computer in memory, a digital file with a system file ID, extending from one memory block until it ends at another. That is, one of its physical presences in its most basic, digital and structural forms. However, through decompositional and filtering processes, that same text may be transfigured. If this object is to be the foundation of all that is intended to follow then its placement and our alternating conceptions of it from within and from without the collection of texts to which it belongs must be considered. A text in its initial, digital construction is one perspective. Subdivided, rearranged, completely reordered, it is another. And yet, it retains the building blocks of that original, and when reconstructed back into that form, those very different perspectives that were just attained by those activities can be illuminating of the original. At the dawn of our new era in the popularization of digital humanities, Franco Moretti and Stanford\'92s Literary Lab called this an \'93elaboration of reality\'94 (Moretti, \'93Operationalizing\'94). In truth, this activity of reconfiguration is far more than an extension. It is the genesis of a \'93new\'94 mindset about a past object. While a new conception on a text is a truism in the scope of humanities knowledge production, it turns out that it is also an integral part understanding data quality for the digital humanities \'96 and as we\'92ll eventually see, for model and visualization quality as well. \
	Since the metaphors and actual substance of computational modeling are so spatial in nature, and since the history of humanistic inquiry itself has depended upon such metaphors, I have found it only suitable to look to a central, experiential metaphor to describe why perspective on data becomes so visceral in our attempts to understand it. It is is the construction of and our physical relationship with a house. The creation, modeling, and interpretation of literature all share a characteristic so universal and seemingly innocuous that it would hardly be worth noting if but for the transformational effect of that characteristic. These activities begin and end in socially and physically situated spaces. Space is the beginning of such argumentative activities and structures.  What space contains our arguments? In the late 1990s, for instance, author Michael Pollan ventured to create a space from which to write books \'96 and then he wrote a book about the process of creating that space. What does writing have to do with constructing a computational model of literature? In 
\f5\i A Place of My Own
\f1\i0 , Pollan explores the connections between the physical spaces we inhabit and how they alter our interpretations of the world around us. But also, tellingly, Pollan\'92s own journey depicts how that outside world and its history informs the creation of those spaces. By journey\'92s end, he gazes out a large window at a desk surrounded by his books. It bears beginning a work on the qualities of modeling literature with this ending. Like many works of fiction, the initially chosen perspective imparts a feeling, foreshadows what is to follow. The constructed vantage of an author is laden with consequence for the work of storytelling. In Conrad\'92s 
\f5\i Heart of Darkness
\f1\i0 , a boat ride up the Thames becomes the position from which readers are given to imagine the same journey throughout preceding history all the way to the time of Roman conquest. Chopin\'92s 
\f5\i The Awakening
\f1\i0  begins with a green and yellow parrot in a cage that can speak French, Spanish, English and \'93a language which nobody understood\'94 (1). These are hardly coincidental perspectives. They are deliberate. That is all to say, the work of representation begins with perspective. Pollan uncovers the subconscious, cultural roots of his desire for this particular writing house perspective, tracing it back to the introduction of the lockable writing desk during the European Renaissance, and then to rooms like studies for writing desks and books \'96 private spaces to think while surrounded by the ideas of others and from which one could look upon the world with remove. \
	Pollan\'92s architect partner \'91Charlie\'92 (Charles Myer of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.charlesmyer.com"}}{\fldrslt Charles R. Myer and Partners}}) notes at the project\'92s outset that this \'93first fact\'94 of perspective is a \'93key element\'94 of the building\'92s design (Pollan 31). The author prototypes perspective by taking a chair and positioning it at various prospective building points on the property. Transposing this into the context of utilizing a dataset from a field of literature, we see that it is not only the foundation \'96 the dataset itself \'96 that ultimately and significantly informs the research to follow. The dataset\'92s boundaries has already been framed by its creator. It is the 
\f5\i placement and angle
\f1\i0  of our metaphorical chair on that foundation the projects an inward- and outward-reflecting 
\f6\i\b functional perspective 
\f1\i0\b0 amid the field of related literature. 
\f4\b What will we be able to see? And what will we want visitors to our research to see?
\f1\b0  Not only is this prototype an argument (Galey and Ruecker 2010, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1093/llc/fqq021"}}{\fldrslt https://doi.org/10.1093/llc/fqq021}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://academic-oup-com.proxy.library.nyu.edu/dsh/article/25/4/405/998338"}}{\fldrslt https://academic-oup-com.proxy.library.nyu.edu/dsh/article/25/4/405/998338}}), but the portion of a dataset we wish to visit and analyze is also an argument. Where do we place our chairs when we want to look at the landscape of a work of literature or a corpus of it? 	Fully understanding the perspective we want to have when approaching the creation of model on this site of inquiry can help us down the road in the modeling, visualization, and analytical processes. What are our assumptions about our data set? What are our hypotheses? Affixing our perspective at the beginning of the process allows for the objectivity necessary to understand our modeling results and interpretations, as well as giving us a better idea of where we may want to reposition the chair in the next iteration. (A model is easier to rebuild than a house \'96 so here the analogy falters and helpfully so.) And that fixity amid all the uncertainy ahead is imperative for the soundness of the building ahead. In this process in order to see where we are going we must remember where we came from, but the memory must retain a clarity. The work of selecting a portion of a dataset is not new to digital humanities work. Understanding and rating the qualities of the data and metadata in that dataset and of our selection from that dataset is, however. The construction of a data quality framework begins with this assessment. In order to illustrate this activity, I will be looking to a set of literature with which I am quite familiar: the poems of Emily Dickinson. Since her death, her work has been published and catalogued in numerous iterations, whole sets of which have their own complex relationships to consider when looking to construct a literary model of them. As Pollan, found when attempting to find a suitable position for his writing house\'92s vantage, siting can be a tricky act when pieces of the terrain are incongruent.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f4\b\fs26 Emily Dickinson\'92s Works\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 	\cf2 Over the course of Emily Dickinson\'92s lifetime around a dozen of her poems were published, and never under her name. Those published were altered without her consent to conform to nineteenth century editorial demands of grammar, punctuation, titling, capitalization. Whole stanzas were sometimes erased or replaced for the sake of popular, poetic aesthetics. To consider the fraught and complicated publication history of her works following her death and why she chose not to publish the thousands of pieces she had authored is to understand how careful Dickinson was when she wrote and her insistence on leading a mostly private life. For instance, one very slight alteration of her \'93A narrow Fellow in the Grass\'94 in Samuel Bowles\'92 \'93Springfield Republican\'94 in February 1866 elicited her complaint: It changed the meaning (McNeil 33-34). The editorial crime? The \'93Republican\'94 added a comma and replaced a dash with a full stop. It\'92s not a wonder that one of her poems begins, \'93Publication is the auction / Of the mind of man, Poverty be justifying / For so foul a thing\'94 (
\f5\i Further Poems
\f1\i0 , Bianchi/Hampson, 4) \cf0 More than a century after her death, poet Ted Hughes described the predicament of a poet\'92s emergence as a public persona as \'93limiting\'94 and even \'93crippling\'94, and not just because of a lack of privacy. \'93It\'92s like being in a close-knit family. The moment you do anything new, the whole family jumps on it, comments, teases, advises against, does everything to make you self-conscious. There\'92s a unanimous reaction to keep you as you were.\'94 (Heinz and Hughes, \'93Paris Review\'94, Spring 1995). \cf2 As Dickinsonian lore has it, the bulk of her thousands of manuscript pages were discovered in her bedroom bureau. What began as a slow-moving publishing project by sister-in-law and close friend, Susan, transformed into an effort by one of Dickinson\'92s poetic correspondents, Thomas Higginson, and her brother\'92s mistress, Mabel Loomis Todd. Not long after, it transformed into a feud between said mistress and Dickinson\'92s remaining family. The feud which stretched generations involved property, manuscripts rights, and even the depiction of her persona. \cf0 Hughes\'92 metaphor of a henpecking family interested in affixing an identity upon their author-relative appears strangely appropriate in Dickinson\'92s case, particularly if one imagines what would have happened had she published under her name while alive. That\'92s not to say that Dickinson\'92s family and friends did not have the best of intentions in preserving and publicizing her writing, but visiting the complicated publishing history that followed her death at times depicts more about the people involved in it than the poet herself. And the editorial changes to the poems, particularly in their nascent forms in print, make the replacement of merely one of her famous dashes in the \'93Republican\'94 look quaint.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 	This kind of information, the detailed and rich provenance depicting a publication history is not always available for a literary scholar attempting to make sense of the various forms of a writer\'92s works in print. And even when that information is available, disentangling the thorniness of that history can prove difficult. One of the advertised promises of computational analysis of literature is to uncover latent information that can aid in difficult research questions, to help detect patterns, trends, and influences especially when there are gaps in the historical record. The production of mathematical models of literature \'96 that is quantified representations of the pieces of language in sequence that compose literary works \'96 are made to pull off a paradoxical magic trick: to reduce our knowledge temporarily in an effort to expand it. Polly Longsworth, writing on attempts by Dickinson\'92s publishers and subsequent biographers to reverse engineer a persona of the poet through her image and the traces of her life \'96 letters, notes, furnishings, etc. \'96 imparts a telling if disturbing description of the nature of that task and Dickinson\'92s own part in making it a difficult one. \'93By straining to keep all traces of what she called "personality'" out of her poems and letters, she made herself vulnerable to the\
imposition of multiple personalities\'94 (Longsworth 39). The multiple roles that Dickinson has taken on post-mortem reflects that computational magic trick. For the notion of a model of Dickinson\'92s poetry contains the idea that we are reassembling an Emily Dickinson and her ouevre by considering the multiple versions of her poems put to print, altered by her editors and publishers. We are reconstructing a Dickinson that is based on quantifiable evidence, but also, of course, the perspective of the modeler themselves. This is a feature for literary scholarship and not a bug: to produce a fact-based and experientially-inflected interpretation of reality. Moretti\'92s \'93elaboration\'94 is not so new after all, merely an enhanced component of a fact-finding toolkit that extends our ability to gain new perspectives into a partially more objective realm.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 Siting for the Dickinson data set\
Description of the Dickinson problem\
Filters as perspective\
\
\
\
	Where should scholars performing this craft look for inspiration or influence? As it turns out, the answer is both within the field and from outside of it. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FED7D714-357F-495F-9A20-38CA10C36EA5"}}{\fldrslt As is routinely pointed in defenses of the subfield}}, humanists carry important ethical values of their own (not the only ethics/values) that inform the general culture of their field(s). I am not making an argument for or against a set of ethics/values here, but rather that specific sets of research values exist for the humanities and that they need be included in computational work. And this is for two reasons. The first is translational: so that the work can be communicated to fields outside of the humanities and reproduced by them. The second is so other scholars in the field can appreciate or even adopt the interpretations and given evidence to ensure the continuation of knowledge production begun by computational work lest it be shunted aside as parallel if disparate subculture itself. As for the former case of translation, we can borrow means of ascertaining these qualities from outside of the field, if but because fields who are based and versed in quantitative methods and evidence have produced such efforts. The most direct borrowing is the creation of a data quality framework. Laura Sebastian Coleman, an information scientist, has written on the creation of such {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A2E5D4DC-332C-4CCA-AA12-B95D071860BA"}}{\fldrslt frameworks.}} Her academic research and position overseeing the data architectures of private insurance and healthcare companies has given her the abstraction and experience to pen a significant work on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C8487602-C71F-4555-99A3-F7C24E2ECCFE"}}{\fldrslt topic.}}  This is where the process of creating a data quality framework for a digital humanities project will begin. As we will see, such a framework does not stop with metrics of data quality. The effect is cumulative, where evidence of quality produces an ethos for subsequent research processes and subsequent research projects. Thinking of this framework as a physical foundation for the work to follow is a useful and (as it turns out) definitional metaphor for the construction of computational models of literature. Even the most complex of things must begin by necessity with a simple form.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1 	\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\b \cf0 Throughout this work I call attention to this analogy not to torture a metaphor of construction (and it will be revisited in different stages of constructing models for literature) but because modeling 
\f6\i is
\f4\i0  metaphorical. The language and motivation by which it occurs is intensely physical and spatial. They operationalize the process of creation. Yet, because of the abstract nature of the mathematics and materials involved (\'93data\'94), this motivation is often lost in the work.
\f1\b0  (possible as footnote?)	\
	\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1\fs32 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \'93Charlie had said that key elements of my building\'92s design\'85would be determined by this 
\f5\i first fact
\f1\i0 .\'94 [italics mine] (Pollan 31)\
\'93[T]here were views to consider (from the building, of the building), the fall of light across its floor, the movement of air around it, the ambient sounds, the angle at which it met the late-day sun.\'94 (31)\
\'93Dwell too long on so many soon-to-be-set-in-stone characteristics and the decisions is liable to paralyze you.\'94 (31)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\b \cf0 \'93I felt that by choosing its site \'96 a single place out of all possible places in which to build \'96 I was setting this great big contingency in motion, rolling it down the steep, one-way hill of personal and local history.\'94 (31)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::3>
\f4\b Data Quality and Laura Sebastian Coleman
\f1\b0 \
\
	But what is data quality? Coleman defines it as \'93the degree to which data meets the expectations of data consumers, based on their intended use of the data\'94 (Coleman, talk slide 8). She renders in perhaps surprisingly subjective terms what will ultimately become a series of quantitative measures. Since there is no escaping bias in measurement, why pretend one can eliminate all of it? Instead, we explicitly define the quality rating of our data in terms of the degree to which it meets our expectation and intended use. Assessment of quality comes through understanding of \'93processes that created\'94 our data, the \'93systems through which\'94 our data was created, \'93the concepts\'94 our data represents, and \'93the known and potential uses of [our] data\'94 (Coleman, talk slide 9). This evaluation is ultimately a means of identifying and understanding the implications of errors in our data. In terms of literary data sets, errors may be both structural and functional. For instance, outliers in categorical fields may be determined to be errors in measurement. One can imagine multiple scenarios for such an error, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D106503B-7F5B-4464-BD61-B6DE68948A7A"}}{\fldrslt the predominant source of which for text analysis might be OCR errors}}. Another way of thinking about errors though are misclassified works in a corpus. For example, if a novel falls far from the lexical norms of writings from a period and place it may be the result of a highly unique author, or it could be something else like a misdating or an authorial misattribution. When the scale of inquiry goes into the hundreds and thousands of works, errors like these may not be far behind depending on our understanding of the processes of the creation of that data. As Coleman notes, who transcribed and produced the metadata for a work, and what prescribed methods by which that transcription and metadata production happened become key means to determining the expected correctness of those editorial processes. Further down the line, those errors may produce unintended consequences for modeling and interpreting models. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://507D1B2D-97CC-4DF7-B71C-2601BE1A0A4F"}}{\fldrslt Up until this point, the preceding history of prominent computational text analysis }}in literary study has either written this off as negligible, statistical noise or produced flat values of \'93error\'94 (as is common in statistics), neither of which offer a reasonable or sound explanatory foundation from which to base further study of subjected corpora.\
	Furthermore, assessment of data quality is a cyclical process and imbues an unorthodox ethics for working with data. In moving from measurement goals to data collection, data quality calculation, and comparison with an expectation (e.g. a norm), conclusions from assessments inherently require the creation of 
\f6\i\b dataset variants
\f1\i0\b0  that contain 
\f6\i\b corrected
\f5\b0  
\f6\b errors
\f1\i0\b0 . While the manipulation of data can inspire terror in the objectively-minded, the reality is that real world data is messy and working with it requires the mature understanding that our datasets contain creation bias and selections of that data are also inherently biased. Consequently, the assumptions upon which our selected measurements stand contain those biases. If a datum confutes our expectation and intended use, and one can determine that this confutation is produced via error, then \'96 almost counterintuitively \'96 it is incumbent upon us to emend it to proceed ethically (and if possible to report on that error to the data creator). All of the above requires a somewhat intimate knowledge of the items in our data set; if not a knowledge rooted at the closely-read level, then a loose (but flexible) expectation of what a work may contain. There will always be unidentified errors due to lack of expertise (a finite resource), but the closer a researcher can get to understanding a data set, the more trust can be built between them and their intended audience(s) that the modeling and their interpretation of it is sound. Thus re-framed in quantitative measures is also the primary justification as to why people who are trained in literary study are those best positioned to create large-scale, computed models of literature.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1\fs32 \
}