{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Measurement Types\
\

\fs30 #1 Dataset Completeness \'96 Sufficiency of Metadata and Reference Data\

\f1\b0\fs24 \

\fs28 \'93Over the life of a database [field of study], opportunity costs are associated with insufficient metadata. Redundant data may be stored because people are not aware of what data an organization already possesses and in what form. Data consumers may use data inappropriate to their purpose because they make incorrect assumptions about it. Or different consumers may use different data for the same kind of analysis, generating inconsistent results.\'94 (Sebastian-Coleman 224)\
\
\'93Metadata assessment tests first for existence and completeness (percentage of tables defined, percentage of columns defined; percentage of codefields supported by references data, etc.) and next for the clarity and quality of definitions (clear, comprehensible, unambiguous, grammatically correct, etc.) and consistency of representation (the same field content defined in the same way).\'94 (224)\
\
\'93One of the primary goals of metadatramanagement is to document organizational understanding of terms and usage.\'94 (225)\
\
Notes on Huck Finn Metadata processing for measurement of Dataset Completeness\
\
Some processing/cleanup from the raw Project Gutenberg text files is necessary. The question becomes how much processing is acceptable before we move into the threshold where we are manipulating the metadata in such a way that it no longer represents the raw state of the \'93data quality\'94 of the data (each edition text file). Essentially, we must at least make note that some processing was necessary in order to get the metadata into such a state that it may be adequately compared. Here this initial processing is a matter of judgment depending on the usefulness of leaving the data in as raw of a state as possible versus if it would be useful to bare with/do some pre-processing.\
\

\fs26 \
}