{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2757
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-BoldItalic;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid203\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 May 12, 2022\
\

\f1\b Ideas\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}Taking a survey of (via DHQ and a few other major DH journals) on how Project Gutenberg is referred to and using it for discussion of data quality of access\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b Done
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Reading Shillingsburg article, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitalhumanities.org:8081/dhq/vol/3/3/000054/000054.html"}}{\fldrslt \'93How Literary Works Exist: Convenient Scholarly Editions\'94}} [CSE] on DHQ\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Shillingsburg refers to Project Gutenberg (PG) disparagingly\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}He actually refers to an \'93ideal edition\'94 - likely a foil for my point about how close is \'93good enough\'94 and access data quality\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}Searching through DHQ for the phrase \'93Project Gutenberg\'94 for understanding how PG is referred to\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Results: 6 pages of articles, so far many use PG seriously and even reference its founding and founding philosophy\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Some interesting ones so far:\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	a.	}Porsdam - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitalhumanities.org:8081/dhq/vol/7/3/000167/000167.html"}}{\fldrslt \'93Digital Humanities: On Finding the Proper Balance between Qualitative and Quantitative Ways of Doing Research in the Humanities\'94}}\
{\listtext	b.	}Chesley - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitalhumanities.org:8081/dhq/vol/13/2/000425/000425.html"}}{\fldrslt \'93The In/Visible, In/Audible Labor of Digitizing the Public Domain\'94}}\
{\listtext	c.	}Hoover - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitalhumanities.org:8081/dhq/vol/1/2/000012/000012.html"}}{\fldrslt \'93The End of the Irrelevant Text: Electronic Texts, Linguistics, and Literary Theory\'94}}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	3.	}Setting up Zotero folder for new works read\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
	
\f1\b Notes
\f0\b0 \
\

\f3\i Shillingsburg - 
\f0\i0 both articles, \'93How Literary Works Exist\'94, CSE and IRI\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}The article (along with its companion piece, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://books.openedition.org/obp/658?lang=en"}}{\fldrslt \'93How Literary Works Exist: Implied, Represented, and Interpreted\'93}} [IRI]) \'93examine the nature of the \'91print things\'92 that textual scholarship tries to identify and analyse, in order to see how best to represent them in electronic scholarly editions and archives.\'94 (both articles use this phrase)\
{\listtext	2.	}IRI: \'93The results of existing funding policies have been projects that invariably provide only local solutions to local problems.\'94\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}S. here believes that construction of digital materials (at this point in time) after a research project have mostly amounted to last minute ventures with little thought to what is being constructed. The deadline overrides concerns about quality (thus \'91local\'92 solutions to \'91local\'92 problems). They \'93hire a techie\'94. S. says this issue is not correctly understood as an \'93interface\'94 problem\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	3.	}IRI: Different ideals of editing - moving from replicating or even recovering (fill in the blank) authenticity to social awareness of material conditions to the notion of the possibility of recovering/reconstructing an \'93urtexts\'94 or, as he puts it: \'93well-wrought urns\'94\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Once these shifts of editorial ideology moved in this direction,\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93Gone are the romantic genius of the author, the noble hand-maidenly efforts of the editor to restore, construct, or reconstruct ideal texts, and with them the hopes for urtexts or well-wrought urns. Presumably, also 
\f3\i gone is the subjectivity that bolstered genius, construction, and ideal texts
\f0\i0 .\'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	4.	}IRI: S. notes previous book where his thoughts were not yet complete on the matter he discusses in these two articles: 
\f3\i From Gutenberg to Googl
\f0\i0 e (2006)\
{\listtext	5.	}IRI: 
\f1\b KEY STATEMENT
\f0\b0  
\f1\b for S.\'92s article and for AoLM:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93The present paper does not trace the history of these shifts but rather takes them for granted as having taken place. It does not, however, take for granted that the shifts have been beneficial, successful, or without loss. Obviously, they have been sufficiently beneficial to be successful enough to have affected the profession of letters. But enthusiasms often come at a price and can blind one, at least at first, to the losses involved.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}So, 
\f1\b in looking at 
\f4\i how literary works exist
\f0\i0\b0 , I am eager to s
\f1\b ee if these shifts have entailed losses and, in particular, if a re-examination of how literary works exist might help us to see how they should be or could be edited for electronic representation
\f0\b0 .\'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	6.	}How do Literary Works Exist?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}On reproduction/transcription: \'93if the goal of editing and of critical analysis is to examine material documents as socio-cultural and historical evidence, then the original documents themselves or high-resolution digital images of them are basic beginnings. That is so because any transcript or new edition would be a witness to the social conditions of its own production, rather than of the production of the original it was trying to (re)-present\'94 (169)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	7.	}His previous book: 
\f1\b From Gutenberg to Google: Electronic Representations of Literary Texts
\f0\b0  (2006)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93which is about the 
\f3\i nature of literary texts
\f0\i0  and about electronic editing\'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	8.	}\'93
\f5\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the idea of a snapshot version of the work as a whole is at best a metaphor on the verge of collapse\'94 (171)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1
\f0\fs26 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Once this is acknowledged we see that a digital edition, mastered or not by competent scholars so too becomes a snapshot and filtered through the various machinations that academic research has deemed worthy of inclusion, excision, reformatting, or even the act of leaving something untouched, commented on, etc.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}If as Shillingsburg restates here that McCarty notes that the process of reading is a machine inflected by the \'93sense units\'94 of the text and our memories of them, then so to do the aspects of a scholarly edition become the machination itself.\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}The thingness of the text being read, studied, modeled is a fragile metaphor. So is the idea of an accurate representation of it. This can be argued because though qualitative in its premise, the idea of accuracy denotes a boundary between \'93accurate\'94 and \'93not accurate.\'94 And if a text processed by amateurs into their own archive or edition is something like 95% accurate according to the standards set out by the mastered scholarly edition then surely that could not be described as something of \'91poor quality.\'92 (Provenance consideration as \'91quality\'92 not withstanding.)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	9.	}On texts as fixed material objects: \'93even though we may not believe in ideal archetypal or intended texts, the proposition remains that literary works do not exist as fixed material objects; they are only implied variously by surviving materials\'94 (173)\
{\listtext	10.	}And what\'92s our motive? \'93[W]e must not forget that one reason we wish to develop some sophisticated sensitivity to the condition of literary works in their multiple selves, their implied forms, and their chronologies of dynamic existence is that we wish to create an electronic equivalence which enables and does not ignore or deny these sensitivities\'85an electronic archive with digital images of documents and accurate, searchable transcriptions is a good start; but it isn\'92t good enough.\'94 (173)\
{\listtext	11.	}The entirety of section 5 refuting the notion that a text is a text is a text - a monad. And references sources McKenzie and McGann.\
{\listtext	12.	}Shillingsburg mentions \'93Timbuktu scholars\'94 being foreseen able to access the electronic archives of Western institutions: \'93Timbuktu scholars do not have to go to great academic institutions such as Cambridge, Oxford, UCLA or TAMU \'97 or if they still have to, we feel that in time they will not have to.\'94\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Of course, we know that capital (e.g. the \'91paywall\'92 and copyright) has dimmed this prospect making those vaunted archives of poor quality in terms of accessibility.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	13.	}Potential awaiting for digital texts. But what about works?\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93So, if we think of the electronic representation of texts and documents in these terms, we might with justice feel that the electronic age has reached a milestone: that the technology and the methodology for representing texts and documents awaits the will and direction of scholars to fulfil the promise of a new but present age.\'94 (175)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	14.	}\'93the complexity of works exceeds the complexity of texts and requires more than imitation on a computer\'92s screen of hand written and machine printed texts\'94 (176)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Works vs texts\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	15.	}\'93Nevertheless, it is worth remembering the potential for interpretive difference deriving, on the one hand, from the bibliographical and lexical particularities of the copy being read and, on the other hand, from the contexts of origination that exercised an operant force on the construction of the copies of the work at important events in the work\'92s life, and on, if one but had one, the third hand, from the critical and interpretive communities influencing the present reader.\'94 (178)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}*** These three sites of interpretation of a work present an interesting - qualitative/humanities-originated rubrik for interacting with measures of data quality\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}For instance, how do (specific) differences of data quality (metrics) affect these three sites of interpretation?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	16.	}\'93No edition of a work fully represents it. An archive of representations of a work only begins scholarship relative to the work by providing the foundation for full engagement with the work\'94 (180)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Key statement on my own work with Huckleberry Finn editions\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	17.	}Shillingsburg believes electronic archives cannot be completed by one team; it is a multi-team, multi-generational work\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Argument for collaboration (DataLad? Etc. etc.)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93The goals of electronic archives / editions for any work of literature are too great for any one editor or one small team of editors to fulfil. But we have yet to see electronic editorial projects as partial contributions to work sites where our best collaborators may have only just now been born. Can we do our work in such a way that textual critics, instead of ignoring existing electronic editions and looking for ways to rebuild from the ground up, can build on what is already done, or could attach their own scholarly work to the existing site as developing contributions to knowledge? If that is to happen how must we undertake our work?\'94\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	18.	}What must be done\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93In order for scholarly editors in the electronic medium to make a difference in the way students and critics read and interpret texts they must do the follow- ing four things:\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2160\fi-2160\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl2\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}1. Make access to texts in scholarly editions as convenient and inexpen- sive as paperbacks, but not oversimplified.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}2. Construct editions so that readers can not only see but touch, manipu- late, personalize, and alter their copies in whatever way they wish.\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}3. Construct editions so that other scholars can participate in the fur- ther construction of the work site by adding new materials, new links, new comments, new information, new texts, new tagging, new views.\'94\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}4. Protect the integrity of the original textual foundation and the dis- creteness of each contributor\'92s offering whilst accomplishing points 2 and 3. (181-2)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}\'93until funding agencies supporting editions and archives add the third wheel to their funding scheme \'97 development of a Collaborative Literary Research Electronic Environment \'97 new electronic editions and archives will con- tinue to imitate print by continuing to create closed, finished or abandoned, look-but-don\'92t-touch products.\'94 (182)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Thought on accessibility:\
\
A data set is low quality if its accessibility is low. And why would this be important? If accessibility is low, reproducibility is low.\
\
\
Shillingsburg not only presents a case for how electronic editions should be constructed, but also a metaphorical humanities framework on top of which we can lay quantitative and qualitative measures of literary data quality. The reason for this is that in considering the differences between a text and a work \'96 affecting how it it is 
\f3\i implied
\f0\i0  and 
\f3\i represented 
\f0\i0 and 
\f3\i who
\f0\i0  it is implied and represented to \'96 Shillingsburg allows points of connection for considering the quality of textual data and textual data collections (archives). What is the degree of success in endeavoring to create a more rich and accurate electronic edition of a work. (And the term \'93work\'94 here is distinguished from the term \'93text\'94 in an important way. The former is implied by instances of the latter. A \'93text\'94 is material and contingent.\
}