{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Done\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 	1.	Gathered and read \'93Rationale\'94 for EDC alongside introduction (downloaded PDF). \
{\listtext	2.	}Read a bit of Martha Nell Smith\'92s first chapter to 
\f3\i Rowing in Eden
\f2\i0 .\
{\listtext	3.	}Downloaded and read a bit of Jerome McGann\'92s 
\f3\i Radiant Textuality
\f2\i0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}relevant in concepts and considering the time period of the production of the EDC\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	4.	}Reread Sebastian Coleman notes on Data Frameworks and thought about the principles and study involved in creating a data quality framework for a humanities data set \'96 in particular the EDC\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Considering for metrics and metrics of quality - what the expectations of the producers of the EDC were and what information they wanted to draw out and what questions they wanted to provoke in the readership/users of the EDC\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Notes\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><!$Scr_H::1><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\b\fs26 The questions they're interested in\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
"What was Emily Dickinson writing? Is this verse or prose or something else? What kinds of practices did she enact in her letter writing? How are poems integral to, and integrated into, her letters? How might poems in letters, and letter-poems, differ from poems in bound manuscript books?" -- from "Rationale"
\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\b\fs26 My thoughts\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 	1.	What about showing the "level" of embeddedness of her poems in letters (or vice-versa)\
{\listtext	2.	}What could this tell us more about the questions proposed by the authors of the EDC? What else could it tell us?
\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\b\fs26 Their broader thoughts (re: outside of Dickinson's writing and pertaining to Dickinson's writing):\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 "With this edition, we hope to open up deeper, broader questions about editorial practices across our culture and society. Editing is not only central to literary productions and to film and television, but is constitutive of art, music, drama, and even politics. By revealing the work of editors, including our own, in shaping and making Emily Dickinson\'92s poems and letters, we aim to encourage readers to cultivate reading strategies unbound, strategies that refuse to accept the patterns given to them unquestioningly. These new reading strategies will offer, we are confident, far more than fresh lenses in our reading glasses. Such active, participatory reading was recommended by Dickinson herself, who wrote that the Poet dwells \'93in Possibility\'94 and spreads \'93wide\'94 her \'93narrow Hands / to gather Paradise." -- from "Rationale"\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\b\fs26 Mix and match, differing order suggestion, also possible place for cross-validation DH studies\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2 \
"In addition to exploiting search capabilities more flexible (and so more powerful) than a book\'92s index, readers of this edition can reorder and rearrange the presentation of these materials in ways a book\'92s static page orderings will not allow. Such dynamic engagement with editorial materials likewise makes possible critical comparisons of original documents and transcriptions and comparison of documents previously available to only a very few scholars. We hope that these new interactions with Emily Dickinson\'92s writings will be transferable to other forums for reading so that readers will see the power and scope of editorial work in an array of cultural arenas."\
-- from "Rationale"\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\b\fs26 Guiding Principle for Data Framework\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 An understanding of the rationale and intentions of a datasets creators helps create the highest quality models based on it. Metrics and measures that incorporate those subjectivities, create a richer and more substantive footing from which to make claims. This is how to begin to form a data quality framework for your data set.\
\
These expectations of the producers of the dataset may and will likely differ from those using it. A resolution those differences is helpful, but not always possible. See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://1DA8D6F2-E2CE-44CF-A895-3D763C963867"}}{\fldrslt Initial Assessment and Profiling notes on Laura Sebastian Coleman}}.
\f1\b \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f1\b\fs26 Emily Dickinson Correspondence \'93Rationale\'94 (Accessed May 30, 2019)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/preface.xqy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\b0 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 https://rotunda.upress.virginia.edu/edc/preface.xqy}}
\f2\b0 \ul \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone Emily Dickinson\'92s Correspondences: A Born-Digital Textual Inquiry, a new critical edition of selected poems, letters, and letter-poems, focuses on the diversities of Emily Dickinson\'92s surviving written record and encourages innovation in interpretation, in reading, and in scholarly editorial practices. Published translations of Emily Dickinson\'92s manuscripts homogenize her various writings so that all letters appear to be of the same ilk, as do all poems. Editions that divide letters from poems and poems from letters elide important aspects of the positions of Dickinson\'92s poems within epistolary contexts and vice versa. Emily Dickinson blended or embedded poems into the prose in letters; wrote them on separate sheets and enclosed them with letters; wrote poems and sent them as letters, with salutation and signature. In other words, Dickinson\'92s poems are often part of letters, and poems are often letters or are contextualized by their mutual enclosure in an envelope with a letter. But these poems, letters, and letter-poems are difficult to comprehend when they are stripped from their original context. Emily Dickinson\'92s Correspondences: A Born-Digital Textual Inquiry is designed to expose readers to the different kinds of the poet\'92s writings and features views of every sort of variation the editors have located in the Dickinson corpus of surviving manuscript writings. By doing so, we hope to make it possible for more readers to engage in deeper, broader inquiries into the writing practices of this revered American poet, asking questions such as, \'93What was Emily Dickinson writing? Is this verse or prose or something else? What kinds of practices did she enact in her letter writing? How are poems integral to, and integrated into, her letters? How might poems in letters, and letter-poems, differ from poems in bound manuscript books?\'94\
\
Because all editing is interpretation, the editors of this critical edition welcome your feedback and suggestions about editing Emily Dickinson\'92s writings. With this edition, we hope to open up deeper, broader questions about editorial practices across our culture and society. Editing is not only central to literary productions and to film and television, but is constitutive of art, music, drama, and even politics. By revealing the work of editors, including our own, in shaping and making Emily Dickinson\'92s poems and letters, we aim to encourage readers to cultivate reading strategies unbound, strategies that refuse to accept the patterns given to them unquestioningly. These new reading strategies will offer, we are confident, far more than fresh lenses in our reading glasses. Such active, participatory reading was recommended by Dickinson herself, who wrote that the Poet dwells \'93in Possibility\'94 and spreads \'93wide\'94 her \'93narrow Hands / to gather Paradise.\'94 The fact that this edition is \'93born-digital\'94 makes it possible for us to show images of the materials on which we are reporting and to expose our editorial processes in ways that have proved too cumbersome for book editions. In addition to exploiting search capabilities more flexible (and so more powerful) than a book\'92s index, readers of this edition can reorder and rearrange the presentation of these materials in ways a book\'92s static page orderings will not allow. Such dynamic engagement with editorial materials likewise makes possible critical comparisons of original documents and transcriptions and comparison of documents previously available to only a very few scholars. We hope that these new interactions with Emily Dickinson\'92s writings will be transferable to other forums for reading so that readers will see the power and scope of editorial work in an array of cultural arenas. This edition is designed, then, not only to show how Emily Dickinson\'92s literary works have been made for public consumption, but to enable readers to become producers, not simply consumers, of literature and scholarship.\
\
\'97Martha Nell Smith, Lara Vetter, Ellen Louise Hart\ul \
\
\ulnone See 
\f1\b Emily Dickinson Correspondence - Introduction
\f2\b0  in \'93{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "Users/PeregrinePickle/Documents/School/New%20York%20University/Disseration/sources"}}{\fldrslt /Dissertation/sources/}} for a fuller discussion of the EDC materials\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>}