{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 Discussion of original publication
\f1\b0 \
\
Twain wrote 
\f2\i The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
\f1\i0  between 1876 and 1883, with at least three separate sprints of writing. \'93Mark Twain Project\'94 notes that it draws from two distinct manuscripts, with its publication in the U.K. by Chatto & Windus in 1884 by Charles L. Webster & co. in 1885. Project staff have been so meticulous in its bibliographic detail that they note the paper types and different types and time periods of different the writing implements Twain used. Depending on what material you count the novel consists 366 pages meted across forty-three chapters. The original edition is also replete with illustrations of the scenes of the novel, making accurate scanning of the book for optical character recognition a more challenging task with captions being caught up in the body of chapter text and the beginning letters of chapter beginnings baked into the illustrations. The book is one of the most famous and most reprinted of American novels, itself being outside of modern copyright protection. This also makes the novel \'96 as an abstract entity for analysis \'96 a very fruitful site to study how data quality can affect literary data and in turn the production of literary models.\
\

\f0\b Discussion of digital editions in general (find sources?)
\f1\b0 \
\
Towards those ends, we will be looking at the best source of a \'93ground truth\'94 for the novel: the highly-curated edition features on the \'93Mark Twain Project\'94 site. And in comparison, we will be looking at digital editions curated over time by volunteers at \'93Project Gutenberg\'94 as well as more scanned and digitized editions on \'93Internet Archive\'94 that have more dirty character recognition but known bibliographic provenance. This mix of editions will be used to visit our data quality metrics for literary data - metrics specifically designed around our interests in Twain and 
\f2\i Huckleberry Finn
\f1\i0 .\
\

\f0\b Discussion of Project Gutenberg and Internet Archive
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b Detail on each edition being used in the subsequent analysis and of the qualities that are noticeable from visually inspecting them\
\
\ul List of digital editions\ulnone \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}\
}